Admissions - M.Sc. (Agriculture Analytics) | Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology Admissions Enquire Now! displayNone displayNone Accessibility Menu Contrast View Text Resize Skip to Main Content Screen Reader Access Pause Animations Pause Cursor Admissions 2025 Open | Summer Research Internship at DAU Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology, Gandhinagar PG Admissions 2023 Announced | Ph.D. Admissions 2023 Announced | Admission Helpline - Voice call: 080 66 91 91 80 M.Tech. (EC) - last date 28 th April 2022 Admission Helpline - Voice call: 080 66 91 91 80 UG Admissions - All India Category - Admission Status Announced Top Right Side Menu DCEI CEP NAAC NIRF NEP 2020 Alumni Alumni Document Service Grievance Redressal ICC Policies Tenders Contact logo Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology A Private University Established by The State Government of Gujarat Act search search Search Daiict Menu About Us Governance Founder President Board of Governors Director Academic Council Finance Committee Deans Dean (Faculty) Dean (Academic Programs) Dean (Research) Dean (Students) Executive Registrar IQAC Organogram Academics Board Of Studies Programs of Study UG Programs PG Programs Doctoral Program Academic Areas Dean's Office Faculty Academic Calendar Courses at Moodle Examination Department Orientation Program Research Research Overview Dean's Office Areas AI, ML and Data Science Algorithms and Theory of Computation Communications and Signal Processing Humanities, Social Sciences and Design Physics and Mathematical Sciences Software Systems and Networking VLSI & Embedded Systems Sponsored Projects Noteworthy Contributions Accomplishments Outreach and Contributions Publications Theses and Reports IRB Student Research Award People Faculty Staff Doctoral Scholars Parents Alumni Students Student Body Government Student Committees Student Clubs IEEE Student Branch Dean's Office Achievements Admissions Why choose DA-IICT? Undergraduate Admissions Postgraduate Admissions Ph.D. Admissions Scholarships Infrastructure Resource Centre ICT Infrastructure Lecture Complex Laboratory Complex Halls of Residence Food Court Medical Facility Campus Security Sports Complex Placements About Placements Placement News & Updates Careers Faculty Positions Faculty on Tenure Faculty on Contract Postdoc Positions Project Positions Non-Teaching Staff Positions Admissions - M.Sc. (Agriculture Analytics) Breadcrumb Home Admissions - M.Sc. (Agriculture Analytics) PG Programs displayNone Postgraduate Admissions M.Tech. (ICT) M.Sc. (IT) M.Sc. (Agriculture Analytics) M.Sc. (Data Science) M.Des. Apply Now Important Dates Program Overview Program Structure Intake Eligibility Selection Process Fees Structure Scholarships How to apply Admission Offer FAQs For Inquiries Online application website opens 18 March 2025 Last date for submission of online applications (Revised) 30 May 2025 Correction / Edit in the Application Form (Any request for modification of the application form will not be entertained after the correction window gets closed) 01 June 2025 (09:00 hrs to 18:00 hrs) Entrance test 15 June 2025 Announcement of list of candidates called for interview TBD Date of Interview TBD Announcement of Merit List TBD Last date for fees payment for confirmed candidates in first round TBD Announcement of Confirmed and Waitlisted Admissions TBD Registration and document verification at DAIICT campus for confirmed candidates TBD The M.Sc. (Agriculture Analytics) is Jointly offered by DA-IICT, Anand Agriculture University and Indian Institute of Remote Sensing with active participation of Industries/Academia by offering value added courses. Indian agriculture contributes 16% of overall GDP and 60% of the total employment in the country. But it suffers from various crisis e.g. fragmentation of the land holding, high input cost, climate change etc. which has reduced the farmers income substantially with time. Government of India has identified thrust areas for increasing farmers income. Some of the key thrust areas identified under Digital India for Ministry of Agriculture &Farmers Welfare are incorporation of space technologies, development of mobile apps, GIS Mapping etc. Developing technologies such as Big Data Analytics, Internet of Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence (AI), etc. are interrelated and are used to optimize the decision making process in agriculture sector. (Doubling Farmers Income  Chapter 7, Volume XII). Agriculture Analytics is a multidisciplinary program of two major disciplines namely Agriculture and Data Analytics. It is a two year Post Graduate Program, which is jointly offered by DA-IICT, Gandhinagar ( https://www.daiict.ac.in/ ), Anand Agriculture University, Anand ( http://www.aau.in/ ) and Indian Institute of Remote Sensing, ISRO, Dehradun ( https://www.iirs.gov.in/ ), premier universities/Institutes in ICT, Agriculture and Space Technology domain, respectively. The program is aimed at nurturing students, with insights and the know-how to take the sector into the future. The course will introduce students to concepts of data analytics, viz. descriptive, predictive and prescriptive, in agriculture and will empower the students to eliminate speculative farming and usher in the age of predictive agriculture. This is a multidisciplinary program of agriculture and data analytics. A unique feature of this program is introduction of value added courses to be offered by industries. The courses allow certification by the industries after successful completion of the tests. The courses offered are of two categories  domain and technology specific areas. Domain specific courses are Crop Yield Modeling by SATSURE Analytics, Enhanced Weather Forecasting by IBM India, Spatial Analysis with ArcGIS Pro by ESRI India, AI in Agritechnology Business by AMNEX Info Technologies. The technology specific courses are Visualisation and Story Telling tools by Analytics Vidhya, Microwave Data Processing by SATSURE Analytics. The program brochure can be found here . The M.Sc. Agriculture Analytics Program follows a full time four-semester pattern and the curriculum consists of three semesters of course work followed by a one-semester project/research work on a specified topic. During summer semester, Value Added Courses (VAC) will be organized at DAIICT by the Industries/Academia. The VAC comes with certification after successful completion The detailed Program structure can be found here Download the brochure for detailed program structure. Total seats: 30 A Bachelors degree with an aggregate of 60% or its equivalent, as per the norms set by the Degree granting Institute/University in Agriculture and allied sciences, Environmental Science, Statistics, Mathematics, Physics, Computer Science, Computer Applications, Information Technology OR A Bachelors degree in Engineering or Technology from a recognized University with an aggregate of 60% or its equivalent, as per the norms set by the Degree granting Institute/University in Computer Science, Information Technology Candidates appearing in their final year Degree examination and expecting to complete it by July 2025 may also apply. However, their final admission will be subject to the condition that they obtain an aggregate of 60% marks, or its equivalent as per the norms set by the degree granting institute/university. All admitted candidates have to submit their degree certificates or proof of completion of Degree, before 30 October 2025 failing which their admission is liable to cancellation. Professionals working in agriculture domain and satisfying the above educational qualification are also welcome to apply. Maximum age limit is 45 years as on last date of filling the application form. The decision of the concerned authorities of DA-IICT, AAU and IIRS regarding eligibility of any candidate shall be final. Age : Maximum age limit is 45 years for this program. At the time of counselling an amount of Rs. 1,25,000 (Rs. 75,000/- towards Tuition Fee for the first semester, Rs. 25,000/- as Caution Deposit (refundable) and Rs. 25,000/- (per semester) as value added course fee payable to service providers) is payable. The Registration Fee is payable at the time of Registration and hostel rent on allotment of Hostel Room. Tuition fee Rs. 75,000 per Semester Value Added Course fee The fees payable for value added courses are Rs. 25,000/- per semester. The fees may vary depending upon the number of courses offered in each semester. The fees are to be paid along with the semester tuition fee in each semester. Registration Fee Rs. 2,500 per Semester Caution Deposit Rs. 25,000 (Refundable at the end of the program) Hostel Rent Rs. 35,000 per semester at DA-IICT. Rent will be different at AAU and IIRS. Food On actuals. There are multiple food options available in the campus (The expense will be approximately Rs. 5,500 per month) Subject to revision every Academic Year from 8 to 10%. Education Loan The Institute will facilitate the students to avail educational loan from selected Banks. The bank officials will be present on campus at the time of registration of admitted students so as to enable the students to obtain details on procedures and terms and conditions of the loan. The students can also avail loan from banks of their choice and in either of the case; the Institute will extend support in completing the loan documentation process. Refund Policy The refund policy for the withdrawing candidates will be in accordance with the UGC rules. Scholarships at DA-IICT DA-IICT encourages bright young students to join its undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral programs. The institute is committed to ensuring that every talented and deserving aspirant has access to its programs. Over the last five years, more than 3500 students across UG and PG have benefitted from the various scholarships offered at DA-IICT. The Institute offers several merit cum means scholarships for students aspiring to join its UG and PG programs. UG and PG aspirants can also apply for scholarships provided by the Government of Gujarat. Additionally, DA-IICT also offers scholarships that have been instituted by its alumni. Aspirants to the PhD program can benefit from the various fellowships available at the Institute. Financial Support The Institute provides financial support in the form of scholarships to eligible students. More details of it can be seen here PG Scholarships - Fellowships DA-IICT Scholarships to M.Sc. (AA) Students | Scholarships Offered to Students There will be three components to the process: (1) an entrance test, (2) an interview and (3) academic credentials. The candidates are shortlisted for the interview on the basis of an entrance test. The entrance test to be conducted at selected centers all over the country. The tentative list of centers is: DAIICT Gandhinagar, Ahmedabad, Bhopal, Benguluru, Chennai, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Patna, Jaipur, Kolkata, New Delhi, Pune, Rajkot, Surat, Udaipur, Bhavnagar, Bhilai, Bhubaneswar, Chandigarh, Guwahati, Jammu, Kochi, Lucknow, Pant Nagar, Porbandar, Ranchi and Vijayawada. Interview will be held for the shortlisted candidates based on their performance in the entrance test. The final merit list for admission will be prepared on the basis of the scores obtained in the (a) entrance test which comprises of 50%, (b) interview which comprises of 30% and (c) academic credentials of 10th, 12th and graduation marks which comprises of 20%. Entrance Test The test will evaluate the candidates on their mathematical and science aptitude, and logical reasoning. Pattern: Multiple choice questions (MCQ) from three sections  Mathematics, Science and Logical Reasoning. Exam Duration: 90 minutes Weightage: A total of 45 questions have to be answered in 90 mins. All questions will carry equal weightage. The mathematics, science sections, and logical reasoning will have 15 questions each. Difficulty Level: Questions from Mathematics and Science will be of standard 10th difficulty level of CBSE board. Exam Syllabus: Basic Mathematics and Science Syllabus For Entrance Test Chemistry Matter: solid, liquid and gas; change of state - melting (absorption of heat), freezing, evaporation (Cooling by evaporation), condensation, sublimation Elements, compounds and mixtures. Atoms and molecules, Atomic and molecular masses, Valency. Chemical formulae of common compounds. Electrons, protons and neutrons; isotopes and isobars. Chemical Equation, types of chemical reactions, Acids, bases and salts, concept of pH scale Metals and non-metals formation and properties of ionic compounds, Carbon compounds, Covalent bonding in carbon compounds. Periodic classification of elements. Physics Distance and displacement, velocity; uniform and non-uniform motion along a straight line; acceleration. Force and motion, Newtons laws of motion, inertia of a body, inertia and mass, momentum, force and acceleration. Elementary idea of conservation of momentum, action and reaction forces. Gravitation; universal law of gravitation, force of gravitation of the earth (gravity), acceleration due to gravity; mass and weight; free fall. Thrust and pressure. Archimedes' principle, buoyancy, elementary idea of relative density. Work, power, Sound, Basic principles of optics, Electromagnetic Theory Different forms of energy, conventional and non-conventional sources of energy: fossil fuels, solar energy; biogas; wind, water and tidal energy; nuclear energy. Renewable versus non-renewable sources. Biology Life processes: Nutrition, Autotrophic, heterotrophic, Nutrition in human beings, Respiration in human beings, Transportation in human beings, plants, Excretion in human beings, in plants; Our Environment: Ecosystem, Food chains and webs, How do our activities affect the environment; Management of Natural resources- Why do we need to manage our resources, Forests and wild life, Stakeholders, Sustainable management, Water for all, Water harvesting, Coal and Petroleum. Mathematics Number Systems Real Numbers: Euclids division Lemma, Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic, proof of the results- irrationality of 2,3,5 decimal expansions of rational numbers in terms of terminating/non- terminating recurring decimals. Algebra Polynomials: Zeros of a polynomial. Relationship between zeros and coefficients of quadratic polynomials. Statement and simple problems on division algorithm for polynomials with real coefficients. Pair of linear equations in two variables: Pair of linear equations in two variables and their graphical solution. Geometric representation of different possibilities of solutions/inconsistency. Algebraic conditions for number of solutions. Solution of pair of linear equations in two variables algebraically  by substitution, by elimination and by cross-multiplication. Simple problems on equations reducible to linear equations. Quadratic equations Standard form of a quadratic equation 2++=0,(0). Solution of the quadratic equations (only real roots) by factorization, by completing the square and by using quadratic formula. Relationship between discriminant and nature of roots. Arithmetic progressions: General form of arithmetic progression (AP), finite and infinite AP, common difference, derivation of standard results of finding the nth term and summation of n terms of AP. Trigonometry Introduction to trigonometry: Trigonometry ratios of an acute angle of a right-angled triangle. Proof of their existence; Values of the trigonometric ratios of 30, 45, 60 and 90. Relationships between the ratios. Trigonometric identities: Proof and applications of the trigonometric identities (e.g. ()2+()2=1). Trigonometric ratios of complementary angles. Heights and distances: Simple and believable problems on heights and distances. Coordinate Geometry Lines (2-Dimensions): Concepts of coordinate geometry including graphs of linear equations. Geometrical representation of quadratic polynomials. Distance between two points and section formula (internal). Area of triangle. Geometry Triangles: Definitions, examples, counter examples of similar triangles, properties of triangles (proof and application). Circles: Definition of tangent to a circle, properties of the tangents drawn to a circle from a point (proof and application). Mensuration Areas related to circles: The area of a circle; area of sectors and segment of a circle. Problems based on areas and perimeter/circumference of the simple figures such as triangles, simple quadrilaterals and circles. Surface areas and volumes: Problems on finding surface areas and volumes of combinations of the following: cubes, cuboids, spheres, hemispheres and right circular cylinders/cones. Frustum of the cone. Problems involving converting one type of metallic solid into another and other mixed problems. Statistics and Probability Statistics: Mean, median and mode of a ungrouped/grouped data, SD, Correlation, Regression Cumulative frequency graph. Probability: Simple problems of single events on classical definition of probability Sample Question Paper: A sample question paper can be found here (PDF). Note: The decision of the Competent Authorities of DA-IICT regarding eligibility and selection of any candidate shall be final. Candidates submit online application by clicking on the link given below. Application fee (non-refundable) is Rs. 1500/- plus GST@ 18%. (Total: Rs. 1770/-). Click here to apply online The Candidate has to satisfy the eligibility criteria in order for her/his application to be considered for final admission. Eligible Candidates have to appear for DA-IICT Entrance Test conducted at selected centers in the country. The online application procedure will guide you through the necessary procedures for application fee payment, registering for entrance test. The short-listed candidates will be offered admission (confirmed/waitlisted) in order of their merit. Counseling will be done online. Applicants are advised, from the date of announcement of first merit list, to check for website to know about the steps they need to take to continue with the counseling process. The candidates who have accepted admission offers will be asked to appear for registration, document verification and payment of fees. Subsequent to this there will be orientation for those who have been given confirmed admission. The candidates who have accepted admission offers will be notified to appear for registration, followed by counseling, document verification, payment of fees and on confirmation of admission, the orientation program. Final merit list of confirmed and wait-listed candidates, based on their combined performance in the entrance test and the interview, will be posted on the website. Offer/intimation of the admission letter will be sent by post and/or email to candidates accordingly. In case multiple candidates have same combined scores (of the entrance test and interview), the candidate who has higher marks in maths and science will be awarded higher rank. The frequently asked questions (FAQs) for the M.Sc. (Agriculture Analytics) program can be found here Voice Call: 079 69 08 08 08 Email: pg_admissions[at]daiict[dot]ac[dot]in Contact Us Text DA-IICT, DA-IICT Road, Gandhinagar 382 007, Gujarat (India) Text For Admission Enquiries Text (+91) 079 - 6826 1700 Text (+91) 079 - 6826 1710 Text info[at]daiict[dot]ac[dot]in For Admissions Voice Call: Text 079 69 08 08 08 Support Ticket: Click here Follow Us On facebook twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn blogIcon Admissions displayNone Undergraduate displayNone Postgraduate displayNone Doctoral Program displayNone Scholarships Research displayNone Research Overview displayNone Deans Office displayNone Areas displayNone Sponsored Projects displayNone Faculty Achievements displayNone Publications displayNone Theses and Reports Academics displayNone Undergraduate displayNone Postgraduate displayNone Doctoral displayNone Stakeholder Feedback People displayNone Faculty displayNone Staff displayNone Doctoral Scholars NAAC displayNone NAAC Cycle 2 SSR Submitted: 2023 displayNone SSR & Evaluative Reports Addendum 2017 displayNone displayNone SSR 2015 displayNone displayNone Evaluative Report 2015 displayNone CoE, Government of Gujarat displayNone Application submitted displayNone Audited Accounts displayNone Meeting of the Governing Bodies NIRF displayNone INDIA Ranking 2025 DCS Submitted INDIA Ranking 2020 DCS Submitted Other Links displayNone UGC proforma/Mandatory disclosure displayNone displayNone e-Procurement displayNone displayNone Prof. S.C. Sahasrabudhe - A Memoir displayNone Holidays 2025 displayNone displayNone Ecampus displayNone displayNone Intranet displayNone displayNone Courses displayNone displayNone Capacity Development and Skills Enhancement Initiatives displayNone Parents displayNone CEP displayNone DCEI displayNone displayNone Committees displayNone displayNone Anti-Ragging Committee displayNone displayNone DA-IICT Lecture Series displayNone Synapse displayNone displayNone Concours displayNone displayNone Tree Survey displayNone Newsletter displayNone Directory displayNone Photo Gallery Group Website Choose a Group Website: ----------- Group Websites ------------ Reliance Group ------------------------------------- Reliance Communications Reliance Digital TV Global Cloud Xchange Reliance Globalcall ------------------------------------- Reliance Capital RARCL Reliance Securities Reliance PMS Reliance General Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Reliance Commercial Finance Reliance Mutual Fund ------------------------------------- Reliance Infrastructure Reliance Energy Reliance Power Reliance Roads Reliance Cements Reliance Energy Trading Mumbai Metro One Nanded Airport CGRF BSES Delhi ------------------------------------- Reliance Entertainment Reliance Big Entertainment Reliance Broadcast Network BIG Productions Reliance Home Video & Games Reliance Animation Reliance Synergy BIG 92.7 FM BIG ADDA BIG Flix Talent House Reliance Games Zapak ------------------------------------- Kokilaben Hospital KDA Nursing College Harmony DAIICT Footer Menu 3 Feedback Copyright Policy Disclaimer Sitemap Copyright  2021 DA-IICT, Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India Visitors: Last Updated: 28-05-2025 Share it Back to Top