M.Tech. (ICT) - All India Category | Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology Admissions Enquire Now! displayNone displayNone Accessibility Menu Contrast View Text Resize Skip to Main Content Screen Reader Access Pause Animations Pause Cursor Admissions 2025 Open | Summer Research Internship at DAU Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology, Gandhinagar PG Admissions 2023 Announced | Ph.D. Admissions 2023 Announced | Admission Helpline - Voice call: 080 66 91 91 80 M.Tech. (EC) - last date 28 th April 2022 Admission Helpline - Voice call: 080 66 91 91 80 UG Admissions - All India Category - Admission Status Announced Top Right Side Menu DCEI CEP NAAC NIRF NEP 2020 Alumni Alumni Document Service Grievance Redressal ICC Policies Tenders Contact logo Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology A Private University Established by The State Government of Gujarat Act search search Search Daiict Menu About Us Governance Founder President Board of Governors Director Academic Council Finance Committee Deans Dean (Faculty) Dean (Academic Programs) Dean (Research) Dean (Students) Executive Registrar IQAC Organogram Academics Board Of Studies Programs of Study UG Programs PG Programs Doctoral Program Academic Areas Dean's Office Faculty Academic Calendar Courses at Moodle Examination Department Orientation Program Research Research Overview Dean's Office Areas AI, ML and Data Science Algorithms and Theory of Computation Communications and Signal Processing Humanities, Social Sciences and Design Physics and Mathematical Sciences Software Systems and Networking VLSI & Embedded Systems Sponsored Projects Noteworthy Contributions Accomplishments Outreach and Contributions Publications Theses and Reports IRB Student Research Award People Faculty Staff Doctoral Scholars Parents Alumni Students Student Body Government Student Committees Student Clubs IEEE Student Branch Dean's Office Achievements Admissions Why choose DA-IICT? Undergraduate Admissions Postgraduate Admissions Ph.D. Admissions Scholarships Infrastructure Resource Centre ICT Infrastructure Lecture Complex Laboratory Complex Halls of Residence Food Court Medical Facility Campus Security Sports Complex Placements About Placements Placement News & Updates Careers Faculty Positions Faculty on Tenure Faculty on Contract Postdoc Positions Project Positions Non-Teaching Staff Positions M.Tech. (ICT) - All India Category Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Admissions  All India Category PG Programs displayNone Postgraduate Admissions M.Tech. (ICT) M.Sc. (IT) M.Sc. (Agriculture Analytics) M.Sc. (Data Science) M.Des. M.Tech. (ICT) with specialization in Machine Learning (ML) Software Systems (SS) VLSI and Embedded Systems (VLSI & ES) Wireless Communication and Signal Processing (WCSP) Apply Now Important Dates Program Overview Program Structure Placement Statistics Intake Eligibility Selection Process Fees Structure Scholarships/Fellowships How to apply FAQs For Inquiries Online application website opens 18 March 2025 Last date for submission of online applications (Revised) 30 May 2025 Correction / Edit in the Application Form (Any request for modification of the application form will not be entertained after the correction window gets closed) 01 June 2025 (09:00 hrs to 18:00 hrs) Entrance test for Non-GATE Category 15 June 2025 Announcement of Merit list for Admissions TBD Last date for fees payment for confirmed candidates in first round TBD Announcement of Confirmed and Waitlisted Admissions TBD Registration and document verification at DAIICT campus for confirmed candidates TBD Master of Technology in Information and Communication Technology  MTech (ICT) is a full-time two-year (four semesters) program. The program has been specially designed to meet the increasing needs of professionals who would be able to respond to the convergence between computers and communication systems. The program aims to provide exposure to students who wish to build a professional career in ICT, working at the intersection of technology, research, and development in the areas of Machine Learning and applications to speech, image and vision, natural language processing and others, Data Analytics, Cyber Security, Distributed Computing, Software Engineering, Embedded Systems, VLSI Subsystem Design, FPGA, Low-power VLSI Design, Nano electronics, advanced wireless communication system, including 5G systems, cognitive and collaborative communication, satellite communication, signal processing, IoT and sensor networks, etc. The Program curriculum includes multiple specializations tracks that provide a strong foundation and advanced courses in each track. This program tries to leverage the strength and diversity of our faculty and currently offers the following specialization tracks: Machine Learning (ML) Software Systems (SS) VLSI and Embedded Systems (VLSI & ES) Wireless Communication and Signal Processing (WCSP) The M.Tech. program provides students with a rigorous understanding of both fundamentals and advanced knowledge in desired areas of specialization. The graduates of the program would be well-positioned to work in the fast-growing ICT industry or to pursue a doctoral degree. Students of the M.Tech program are required to complete a set of program core courses, general elective courses, specialization core courses and specialization elective courses. The program structure is designed to allow a wide choice of electives in desired areas of specialization. Apart from the courses, the students must complete two projects, a minor project in Semester 2 and Major project I spread over the summer semester and semester 3. The project components provide the students an opportunity to undertake directed research work under the supervision of a faculty mentor. In semester 4, a student can opt for Major project II, in continuation with Major project 1, or pursue an internship in the industry. Students interested in a thesis must enrol for Major project II in semester 4. The detailed Program structure, Program core courses, Specialization core courses, and Elective courses can be found here Placement Statistics for the Last Five Years - Postgraduate Programs: Highest CTC: 45.03 LPA Average CTC: 08.43 LPA Top Recruiters: Number of seats All India Category : 63 ( see distribution below ) Admission will be through two channels i.e. GATE and Non-GATE. The possession of a valid GATE score in a discipline specific to the specialization is mentioned in the following table along with seat distribution : Specialization GATE Discipline All India Seats Seats through GATE* Seats through Non-GATE Total Number of Seats Mode Machine Learning CS/EC/EE/DA 18 6 24 Software Systems CS 15 5 20 VLSI and Embedded Systems EC/EE/IN 9 3 12 Wireless Communication and Signal Processing EC 5 2 7 Total 47 16 63 Note: Applicants can apply for admissions through one of the channels only, i.e., either through GATE or NON-GATE . 2. The institute can also admit a few candidates sponsored by the organization / institute with which DA-IICT has signed a MoU satisfying the admission criteria of the MTech program specified in the MoU . 3. Institute has right to convert vacant seats of GATE category to Non-GATE category and vice-a-versa . Specialization wise Educational qualifications Machine Learning Software Systems GATE qualified candidates A candidate with a qualifying degree in any one of the following : BE/BTech (CS/IT/EL, ECE, Electrical, Instrumentation) M.Sc. degree in Computer Science / Electronics / Mathematics / Statistics . M.Sc. degree of DA-IICT . M.C.A. degree (3 year program) The aggregate marks in the qualifying degree should not be less than 60% or equivalent as per the norm set by the degree awarding Institute/University . Non-GATE candidates MSc (CS), MCA, BE/BTech (CS, IT, CSE, ECE, Instrumentation) The aggregate marks in the qualifying degree should not be less than 65% or equivalent as per the norm set by the degree awarding Institute/University . VLSI & Embedded Systems GATE qualified candidates A candidate with a qualifying degree in any one of the following : BE/BTech (CS/IT/EL, ECE, Electrical, Instrumentation), MSc (Electronics) The aggregate marks in the qualifying degree should not be less than 60% or equivalent as per the norm set by the degree awarding Institute/University . Non-GATE candidates BE/BTech (Instrumentation & Control) MSc (Electronics), BE/BTech (ECE/EE/EL, Instrumentation) The aggregate marks in the qualifying degree should not be less than 65% or equivalent as per the norm set by the degree awarding Institute/University . Wireless Communication and Signal Processing (WCSP) GATE qualified candidates A candidate with a qualifying degree in any one of the following : BE/BTech. or equivalent in ECE, EE, CS/IT, Instrumentation, Instrumentation & Control, MSc or equivalent in Electronics . The aggregate marks in the qualifying degree should not be less than 60% or equivalent as per the norm set by the degree awarding Institute/University. Non-GATE candidates A candidate with qualifying degree in any of the following: BE/BTech. or equivalent in ECE, EE, Instrumentation, Instrumentation & Control, MSc or equivalent in Electronics. The aggregate marks in the qualifying degree should not be less than 65% or equivalent as per the norm set by the degree awarding Institute/University . Candidates appearing in their final degree examination and expecting to complete it by July 2025 may also apply. However, their final admission will be subject to the condition that they obtain an aggregate of marks required based on mode of admission i.e. GATE/Non-GATE, or its equivalent as per the norms set by the degree granting Institute/University. All admitted candidates have to submit their degree certificates or proof of completion of degree, before 30 October 2025 failing which their admission is liable to cancellation. Age: There is no age limit applicable to this program . Admission to All India category of M. Tech. (ICT) with specialization SS, ML, VLSI&ES and WCSP will admit candidates through two channels: GATE and NON-GATE . Admission through GATE Channel: Candidates who have a valid GATE score in the disciplines of Electronics & Communication Engineering (EC), Electrical Engineering (EE), Computer Science & Information Technology (CS), Instrumentation Engineering (IN) and Data Science & Artificial Intelligence (DA), only can apply. The final merit list for admission will be prepared on the basis of valid GATE score only. Specialization GATE Discipline Machine Learning CS/EC/EE/DA Software Systems CS VLSI and Embedded Systems EC/EE/IN Wireless Communication and Signal Processing EC Admission through Non-GATE Channel: The selection of candidates in Non-GATE category will be based on the entrance test to be conducted at selected centers all over the country. The tentative list of centers is: DAIICT Gandhinagar, Ahmedabad, Bhopal, Benguluru, Chennai, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Patna, Jaipur, Kolkata, New Delhi, Pune, Rajkot, Surat, Udaipur, Bhavnagar, Bhilai, Bhubaneswar, Chandigarh, Guwahati, Jammu, Kochi, Lucknow, Pant Nagar, Porbandar, Ranchi and Vijayawada. The final merit list for admission will be prepared on the basis of the aggregate score in the entrance test. The candidates can give up to two preferred specializations based on their eligibility conditions. Counseling for allotment of the specialization will be done online. Applicants are advised, from the date of announcement of first merit list, to check for e-mail communications from the Institute to learn about the admission status and steps they need to take to continue with the counseling process . Note: The decision of the Competent Authorities of DA-IICT regarding eligibility and selection of any candidate shall be final . Entrance Test for Non-GATE : Exam Duration : 90 minutes Pattern : Multiple-choice answers. Negative Marking : For each correct answer a candidate will get +4 and for each incorrect answer there will be a negative mark of -1 . Exam Syllabus : The syllabus for the Non-GATE entrance test will be based on the GATE 2025 EC and CS disciplines syllabus . EC Syllabus applicable to following specializations : Machine Learning ( ML ) VLSI and Embedded Systems ( VLSI & ES ) Wireless Communication and Signal Processing ( WCSP ) For EC Syllabus click here CS Syllabus applicable to following specializations : Machine Learning ( ML ) Software Systems ( SS ) For CS Syllabus click here Sample Question Paper : A sample question paper for EC can be found here (PDF) A sample question paper for CS can be found here (PDF) Tie-breaker for Non-GATE Merit: In case of tie, the marks in Engineering Mathematics section in the entrance test will be considered in order to break the tie. If the tie still remains, then in 10+2 / Diploma and 10th Examination will be given consideration in order to break the tie . At the time of counselling an amount of Rs. 1,15,000/- (Rs. 90,000/- towards Tuition Fee for the First Semester and Rs. 25,000/- towards Caution Deposit) is to be paid. The registration fee is payable at the time of registration and hostel rent on allotment of the hostel room . This fee structure is submitted to Appellate Committee for consideration . Tuition fee Rs. 90,000 per Semester Registration Fee Rs. 2,500 per Semester Caution Deposit Rs. 25,000 (Refundable at the end of the program) Hostel Rent Rs. 35,000 per semester Food On actuals. There are multiple food options available in the campus (The expense will be approximately Rs. 5,500 per month) * This Fee Structure is submitted to the Appellate Committee of the State Government for consideration . Subject to revision every Academic Year from 8 to 10%. Education Loan The Institute will facilitate the students to avail educational loan from selected Banks. The bank officials will be present on campus at the time of registration of admitted students so as to enable the students to obtain details on procedures and terms and conditions of the loan. The students can also avail loan from banks of their choice and in either of the case; the Institute will extend support in completing the loan documentation process. Refund Policy The refund policy for the withdrawing candidates will be in accordance with the UGC rules . Scholarships at DA-IICT DA-IICT encourages bright young students to join its undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral programs. The institute is committed to ensuring that every talented and deserving aspirant has access to its programs. Over the last five years, more than 3500 students across UG and PG have benefitted from the various scholarships offered at DA-IICT. The Institute offers several merit cum means scholarships for students aspiring to join its UG and PG programs. UG and PG aspirants can also apply for scholarships provided by the Government of Gujarat. Additionally, DA-IICT also offers scholarships that have been instituted by its alumni. Aspirants to the PhD program can benefit from the various fellowships available at the Institute. Financial Assistance GATE Admitted Students : Eligible for a monthly stipend of Rs. 15,000 in the form of a Teaching Assistantship during the first semester. Non-GATE Admitted Students : Eligible for a monthly stipend of Rs. 12,500 in the form of a Teaching Assistantship during the first semester. Subsequent Semesters : Continuation of the stipend depends on meeting the academic requirements. PG Scholarships - Fellowships UG/PG Cybage Khushboo Scholarships | Scholarships Offered to Students Submit online application form by clicking on the link given below. Application fee (non-refundable) is Rs. 1500/- plus GST@ 18%. (Total Rs. 1770/-). Click here to apply online The Candidate has to satisfy the eligibility criteria in order for her/his application to be considered for admission. For GATE qualified candidates the merit list for admission will be prepared on the basis of valid GATE score of the candidates applying for admission. Counseling for allotment of specialization will be done online. For Non-GATE qualified candidates the merit list for admission will be prepared based on the entrance test score. Eligible Non-GATE Candidates have to appear for Entrance Test conducted at selected centers in the country. The online application procedure will guide you through the necessary procedures for application fee payment, registering for entrance test, choosing test center. The short-listed candidates will be offered admission (confirmed/waitlisted) in order of their merit. Counseling will be done online. Applicants are advised, from the date of announcement of first merit list, to check for website to know about the specialization allotted to them and the steps they need to take to continue with the counseling process. The candidates who have accepted admission offers will be asked to appear for registration, document verification and payment of fees. Subsequent to this there will be orientation for those who have been given confirmed admission. Choice of Specializations Candidates are requested to carefully go through the curriculum of the individual specializations before filling their choice(s) of specialization. Once the form is submitted, the candidates will not be allowed to change their choice. The candidates can specify up to two choices of specialization depending on their eligibility. If the candidate is offered admission in his/her second choice of specialization, he/she remains in the wait-list in his/her first choice of specialization, till the admission process is closed. If the candidate is offered admission in his/her first choice of specialization, he/she does not remain in the wait-list in his/her second choice of specialization. Once the admission process is closed, at no point of time in the program will the specialization be allowed to change. The frequently asked questions (FAQs) for the M.Tech. (ICT) program can be found here . Voice Call: 079 69 08 08 08 Email: pg_admissions[at]daiict[dot]ac[dot]in Contact Us Text DA-IICT, DA-IICT Road, Gandhinagar 382 007, Gujarat (India) Text For Admission Enquiries Text (+91) 079 - 6826 1700 Text (+91) 079 - 6826 1710 Text info[at]daiict[dot]ac[dot]in For Admissions Voice Call: Text 079 69 08 08 08 Support Ticket: Click here Follow Us On facebook twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn blogIcon Admissions displayNone Undergraduate displayNone Postgraduate displayNone Doctoral Program displayNone Scholarships Research displayNone Research Overview displayNone Deans Office displayNone Areas displayNone Sponsored Projects displayNone Faculty Achievements displayNone Publications displayNone Theses and Reports Academics displayNone Undergraduate displayNone Postgraduate displayNone Doctoral displayNone Stakeholder Feedback People displayNone Faculty displayNone Staff displayNone Doctoral Scholars NAAC displayNone NAAC Cycle 2 SSR Submitted: 2023 displayNone SSR & Evaluative Reports Addendum 2017 displayNone displayNone SSR 2015 displayNone displayNone Evaluative Report 2015 displayNone CoE, Government of Gujarat displayNone Application submitted displayNone Audited Accounts displayNone Meeting of the Governing Bodies NIRF displayNone INDIA Ranking 2025 DCS Submitted INDIA Ranking 2020 DCS Submitted Other Links displayNone UGC proforma/Mandatory disclosure displayNone displayNone e-Procurement displayNone displayNone Prof. S.C. Sahasrabudhe - A Memoir displayNone Holidays 2025 displayNone displayNone Ecampus displayNone displayNone Intranet displayNone displayNone Courses displayNone displayNone Capacity Development and Skills Enhancement Initiatives displayNone Parents displayNone CEP displayNone DCEI displayNone displayNone Committees displayNone displayNone Anti-Ragging Committee displayNone displayNone DA-IICT Lecture Series displayNone Synapse displayNone displayNone Concours displayNone displayNone Tree Survey displayNone Newsletter displayNone Directory displayNone Photo Gallery Group Website Choose a Group Website: ----------- Group Websites ------------ Reliance Group ------------------------------------- Reliance Communications Reliance Digital TV Global Cloud Xchange Reliance Globalcall ------------------------------------- Reliance Capital RARCL Reliance Securities Reliance PMS Reliance General Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Reliance Commercial Finance Reliance Mutual Fund ------------------------------------- Reliance Infrastructure Reliance Energy Reliance Power Reliance Roads Reliance Cements Reliance Energy Trading Mumbai Metro One Nanded Airport CGRF BSES Delhi ------------------------------------- Reliance Entertainment Reliance Big Entertainment Reliance Broadcast Network BIG Productions Reliance Home Video & Games Reliance Animation Reliance Synergy BIG 92.7 FM BIG ADDA BIG Flix Talent House Reliance Games Zapak ------------------------------------- Kokilaben Hospital KDA Nursing College Harmony DAIICT Footer Menu 3 Feedback Copyright Policy Disclaimer Sitemap Copyright  2021 DA-IICT, Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India Visitors: Last Updated: 28-05-2025 Share it Back to Top