Ph.D. (Rolling  Second Quarter 2025) Admissions | Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology Admissions Enquire Now! displayNone displayNone Accessibility Menu Contrast View Text Resize Skip to Main Content Screen Reader Access Pause Animations Pause Cursor Admissions 2025 Open | Summer Research Internship at DAU Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology, Gandhinagar PG Admissions 2023 Announced | Ph.D. Admissions 2023 Announced | Admission Helpline - Voice call: 080 66 91 91 80 M.Tech. (EC) - last date 28 th April 2022 Admission Helpline - Voice call: 080 66 91 91 80 UG Admissions - All India Category - Admission Status Announced Top Right Side Menu DCEI CEP NAAC NIRF NEP 2020 Alumni Alumni Document Service Grievance Redressal ICC Policies Tenders Contact logo Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology A Private University Established by The State Government of Gujarat Act search search Search Daiict Menu About Us Governance Founder President Board of Governors Director Academic Council Finance Committee Deans Dean (Faculty) Dean (Academic Programs) Dean (Research) Dean (Students) Executive Registrar IQAC Organogram Academics Board Of Studies Programs of Study UG Programs PG Programs Doctoral Program Academic Areas Dean's Office Faculty Academic Calendar Courses at Moodle Examination Department Orientation Program Research Research Overview Dean's Office Areas AI, ML and Data Science Algorithms and Theory of Computation Communications and Signal Processing Humanities, Social Sciences and Design Physics and Mathematical Sciences Software Systems and Networking VLSI & Embedded Systems Sponsored Projects Noteworthy Contributions Accomplishments Outreach and Contributions Publications Theses and Reports IRB Student Research Award People Faculty Staff Doctoral Scholars Parents Alumni Students Student Body Government Student Committees Student Clubs IEEE Student Branch Dean's Office Achievements Admissions Why choose DA-IICT? Undergraduate Admissions Postgraduate Admissions Ph.D. Admissions Scholarships Infrastructure Resource Centre ICT Infrastructure Lecture Complex Laboratory Complex Halls of Residence Food Court Medical Facility Campus Security Sports Complex Placements About Placements Placement News & Updates Careers Faculty Positions Faculty on Tenure Faculty on Contract Postdoc Positions Project Positions Non-Teaching Staff Positions Ph.D. (Rolling  Second Quarter 2025) Admissions Breadcrumb Home Ph.D. (Rolling  Second Quarter 2025) Admissions Admissions in Ph.D. programs at DA-IICT is possible through two channels. These are 1. Ph.D. (Regular & Part-Time) 2. Ph.D. (Rolling) DA-IICT aspires to take a leading role in the research areas related to Information and Communication Technology (ICT). The research interest of faculty members is widely spread in the areas of ICT and Humanities, Physics and Mathematical Sciences, Social Sciences, Design and Arts. The doctoral program leading towards the award of the degree of Doctorate of Philosophy (Ph.D.) provides the prospective students an opportunity to carry out innovative research that would strengthen ICT R&D activities in academia, governance and industry. Apply Now Important Dates Program Overview Program Structure Intake Eligibility and Selection Criteria Fees Structure Stipend/Fellowship How to apply FAQs For Inquiries Submission of online Application Form commences on Throughout the Year Review of the Submitted Application Forms 10 June 2025 Announcement of list of candidates called for interview TBD Presentation and Interview TBD Announcement of Result TBD Ph.D. rolling admission is aimed at inviting candidates who have a clear idea of the research area or research problems they want to pursue. The interested candidates are first expected to interact with the concerned faculty member(s) at DA-IICT to explore the research areas and topics of their interest. The details of the faculty members with their research interests can be found here . For Research areas click here AI, ML and Data Science Algorithms and Theory of Computation Communications and Signal Processing Humanities, Social Sciences and Design Physics and Mathematical Sciences Software Systems and Networking VLSI & Embedded Systems Under the Ph.D. rolling admission scheme, applications are invited throughout the year and will be reviewed on a quarterly basis, tentatively in the month of March/June/September/December. Admissions in the Ph.D. program is also possible through the Ph.D. (Regular) category. For more details, please visit here The PhD program comprises of both course and research work. The amount of coursework one has to undergo depends on the candidates' past background and the research one is engaged in. The research work to be undertaken for PhD must include original contribution to the knowledge reserve culminating in a thesis to be submitted for the doctoral degree. The detailed Program structure, academic requirement, and comprehensive examination information can be found here . Institute reserves the right to admit as many as candidates depending on their credentials and potential. Eligibility and Selection Criteria for Ph.D. (Rolling) Admissions: Category - A ICT and Allied Domains Educational Qualification Eligibility Criteria Selection Criteria M.Tech./M.E./M.C.A./M.Sc./M.Phil./B.Tech/B.E. or equivalent degree in ICT / CS / EC / IT / EE / IN / Mathematics / Statistics / Physics / Bioinformatics / Electronics or other appropriate disciplines with 60% marks or its equivalent in the qualifying degree as per the norms set by degree awarding Institute/University. (i) Sponsored Candidates: The candidates should be sponsored by an R&D organization with which DA-IICT has carried out a long term cooperative/ collaborative research work/program or has signed an MOU or an employee sponsored by his/her organization. The candidate who intends to apply in this category should forward his/her application through proper channel, that is, a forwarding certificate/letter by the head of the department/institute. Sponsorship certificate template link (PDF) DA-IICT reserves right to relax eligibility criteria for the sponsored category for deserving candidates based on candidates research profile and experience. OR (ii) Candidates with fellowship: The candidates with valid UGC-NET qualified/DST Inspire/PM scholarship/ Visvesvaraya PhD scheme at the time of application. OR (iii) DA-IICT Project Staff (JRF/SRF): The candidate should be working in a sponsored project at DA-IICT. The candidates must have completed at least three months as a project staff at DA-IICT at the time of application. The sponsored project at DA-IICT should be of minimum two years duration and the remaining JRF/SRF tenure in the project should be at-least 1 year at the time of application The JRF or SRF staff member of the institute's project, who intends to apply for a PhD position, should also fulfill either the GATE or UGC-NET requirement The candidates, who fulfill the eligibility criteria (i) and/or (ii) in the Column III of this table will be selected for further process by a panel of experts. All candidates selected by the panel of experts will be invited for a research presentation followed by an interview. Final merit list of the admitted candidates will be prepared on the basis of the combined performance both in the presentation and the interview. For the candidates, who fulfill the eligibility criteria (iii) in the Column III of this table, the admissions committee would refer the applications received to a panel of experts who can judge the relative merits of each application and accordingly decide the relevant GATE/NET threshold. The applicant is expected to fulfill the GATE/NET score/rank threshold as decided by the committee/panel of experts. The shortlisted candidates will be invited for a research presentation followed by an interview. Final merit list of the admitted candidates will be prepared on the basis of the combined performance both in the presentation and the interview. Category - B Mathematics and Natural Sciences (Mathematics, Physical Sciences, Computational Science) Educational Qualification Eligibility Criteria Selection Criteria M.Sc./M.Tech./M.Phil./B.Tech./B.E. or equivalent degree in Engineering Physics / Computational Science / Computer Science / Scientific Computing / Physics / Mathematics / Electronics / Bioinformatics or other appropriate disciplines with 60% marks or its equivalent as per the norms set by the degree awarding Institute/University. (i) Sponsored Candidates: The candidates should be sponsored by an R&D organization with which DA-IICT has carried out a long term cooperative/ collaborative research work/program or has signed an MOU or an employee sponsored by his/her organization. The candidate who intends to apply in this category should forward his/her application through proper channel, that is, a forwarding certificate/letter by the head of the department/institute. Sponsorship certificate template link (PDF) DA-IICT reserves right to relax eligibility criteria for the sponsored category for deserving candidates based on candidates research profile and experience. OR (ii) Candidates with fellowship: The candidates with valid UGC-NET qualified/DST Inspire/PM scholarship/ Visvesvaraya PhD scheme at the time of application. OR (iii) DA-IICT Project Staff (JRF/SRF): The candidate should be working in a sponsored project at DA-IICT. The candidates must have completed at least three months as a project staff at DA-IICT at the time of application. The sponsored project at DA-IICT should be of minimum two years duration and the remaining JRF/SRF tenure in the project should be at-least 1 year at the time of application The JRF or SRF staff member of the institute's project, who intends to apply for a PhD position, should also fulfill either the GATE or UGC-NET requirement The candidates, who fulfill the eligibility criteria (i) and/or (ii) in the Column III of this table will be selected for further process by a panel of experts. All candidates selected by the panel of experts will be invited for a research presentation followed by an interview. Final merit list of the admitted candidates will be prepared on the basis of the combined performance both in the presentation and the interview. For the candidates, who fulfill the eligibility criteria (iii) in the Column III of this table, the admissions committee would refer the applications received to a panel of experts who can judge the relative merits of each application and accordingly decide the relevant GATE/NET threshold. The applicant is expected to fulfill the GATE/NET score/rank threshold as decided by the committee/panel of experts. The shortlisted candidates will be invited for a research presentation followed by an interview. Final merit list of the admitted candidates will be prepared on the basis of the combined performance both in the presentation and the interview. Category - C Humanities, Arts, Social Sciences, and Design (English, Modern History, Social & Cultural Anthropology, Comparative Literature, Philosophy, Cultural & Media Studies and Design) Educational Qualification Eligibility Criteria Selection Criteria M.A./M.Phil. or an equivalent degree in the desired discipline with at least 55% marks or equivalent as per the norms set by the degree awarding Institute/University. (i) Sponsored Candidates: The candidates should be sponsored by an R&D organization with which DA-IICT has carried out a long term cooperative/ collaborative research work/program or has signed an MOU or an employee sponsored by his/her organization. The candidate who intends to apply in this category should forward his/her application through proper channel, that is, a forwarding certificate/letter by the head of the department/institute. Sponsorship certificate template link (PDF) DA-IICT reserves right to relax eligibility criteria for the sponsored category for deserving candidates based on candidates research profile and experience. OR (ii) Candidates with fellowship: The candidates with valid UGC-NET qualified/DST Inspire/PM scholarship/ Visvesvaraya PhD scheme at the time of application. OR (iii) DA-IICT Project Staff (JRF/SRF): The candidate should be working in a sponsored project at DA-IICT. The candidates must have completed at least three months as a project staff at DA-IICT at the time of application. The sponsored project at DA-IICT should be of minimum two years duration and the remaining JRF/SRF tenure in the project should be at-least 1 year at the time of application The JRF or SRF staff member of the institute's project, who intends to apply for a PhD position, should also fulfill either the GATE or UGC-NET requirement The candidates, who fulfill the eligibility criteria (i) and/or (ii) in the Column III of this table will be selected for further process by a panel of experts. All candidates selected by the panel of experts will be invited for a research presentation followed by an interview. Final merit list of the admitted candidates will be prepared on the basis of the combined performance both in the presentation and the interview. For the candidates, who fulfill the eligibility criteria (iii) in the Column III of this table, the admissions committee would refer the applications received to a panel of experts who can judge the relative merits of each application and accordingly decide the relevant GATE/NET threshold. The applicant is expected to fulfill the GATE/NET score/rank threshold as decided by the committee/panel of experts. The shortlisted candidates will be invited for a research presentation followed by an interview. Final merit list of the admitted candidates will be prepared on the basis of the combined performance both in the presentation and the interview. In all the above cases, the candidate is first expected to interact with the concerned faculty at DA-IICT. The details of the faculty members with their research interests can be found here . Note: Candidates with M.Sc./M.C.A., unless they have a subsequent M. Phil. degree will be considered equivalent to candidate with a B.Tech./B.E. degree and are required to fulfil (additional) course and research requirements. The decision of the Competent Authorities of DA-IICT regarding eligibility of any candidate shall be final. Candidates admitted through rolling admissions will be formally inducted into the DA-IICT system within a week of declaration of results, and they will be eligible to access the institute facilities and start their research work under the chosen supervisor. Their course-work will start as and when the next semester starts. At the time of counselling an amount of Rs. 50,000/- (Rs. 25,000/- towards tuition fee for the first Semester and Rs. 25, 000/- towards caution deposit) is to be paid by way of bank draft drawn in favour of DA-IICT, payable at Ahmedabad. The registration fee is payable at the time of registration and hostel rent on allotment of the hostel room. Tuition fee Rs. 25,000 per Semester, applicable from academic year 2024-2025. Registration Fee Rs. 2,500 per Semester Caution Deposit Rs. 25,000 (Refundable at the end of the Program) Hostel Rent Rs. 35,000 per semester Food On actuals. There are multiple food options available in the campus (The expense will be approximately Rs. 5,500 per month) Subject to revision every Academic Year from 8 to 10%. Refund Policy The refund policy for the withdrawing candidates will be in accordance with the UGC rules. Financial Assistance: Under Ph.D. (Rolling) scheme, the candidates should have some form of fellowship/sponsorship at the time of application. However, financial support (fellowship) in the form of Teaching Assistantship (TA)/Research Assistantship (RA) as per prevailing rules of the DA-IICT will be provided to all those who are not able to avail JRF/SRF or UGC-NET financial assistance/stipend. Submit online application form by clicking on the link given below. Application fee (non-refundable) is Rs. 300/- (including GST@ 18%). Click here to apply online The Candidate has to satisfy the eligibility criteria in order for her/his application to be considered for admission into the PhD. program. The candidates who have accepted admission offers will be notified to appear for registration, followed by document verification, payment of fees and on confirmation of admission, the orientation program. Admission Offer List of candidates selected for admission to the Ph.D. Program will be posted on the website of DA-IICT, and the candidates will be intimated accordingly through post and/or email. The frequently asked questions (FAQs) for the Ph.D. (Rolling) program can be found here Voice Call: 079 69 08 08 08 Email: pg_admissions[at]daiict[dot]ac[dot]in Contact Us Text DA-IICT, DA-IICT Road, Gandhinagar 382 007, Gujarat (India) Text For Admission Enquiries Text (+91) 079 - 6826 1700 Text (+91) 079 - 6826 1710 Text info[at]daiict[dot]ac[dot]in For Admissions Voice Call: Text 079 69 08 08 08 Support Ticket: Click here Follow Us On facebook twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn blogIcon Admissions displayNone Undergraduate displayNone Postgraduate displayNone Doctoral Program displayNone Scholarships Research displayNone Research Overview displayNone Deans Office displayNone Areas displayNone Sponsored Projects displayNone Faculty Achievements displayNone Publications displayNone Theses and Reports Academics displayNone Undergraduate displayNone Postgraduate displayNone Doctoral displayNone Stakeholder Feedback People displayNone Faculty displayNone Staff displayNone Doctoral Scholars NAAC displayNone NAAC Cycle 2 SSR Submitted: 2023 displayNone SSR & Evaluative Reports Addendum 2017 displayNone displayNone SSR 2015 displayNone displayNone Evaluative Report 2015 displayNone CoE, Government of Gujarat displayNone Application submitted displayNone Audited Accounts displayNone Meeting of the Governing Bodies NIRF displayNone INDIA Ranking 2025 DCS Submitted INDIA Ranking 2020 DCS Submitted Other Links displayNone UGC proforma/Mandatory disclosure displayNone displayNone e-Procurement displayNone displayNone Prof. S.C. Sahasrabudhe - A Memoir displayNone Holidays 2025 displayNone displayNone Ecampus displayNone displayNone Intranet displayNone displayNone Courses displayNone displayNone Capacity Development and Skills Enhancement Initiatives displayNone Parents displayNone CEP displayNone DCEI displayNone displayNone Committees displayNone displayNone Anti-Ragging Committee displayNone displayNone DA-IICT Lecture Series displayNone Synapse displayNone displayNone Concours displayNone displayNone Tree Survey displayNone Newsletter displayNone Directory displayNone Photo Gallery Group Website Choose a Group Website: ----------- Group Websites ------------ Reliance Group ------------------------------------- Reliance Communications Reliance Digital TV Global Cloud Xchange Reliance Globalcall ------------------------------------- Reliance Capital RARCL Reliance Securities Reliance PMS Reliance General Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Reliance Commercial Finance Reliance Mutual Fund ------------------------------------- Reliance Infrastructure Reliance Energy Reliance Power Reliance Roads Reliance Cements Reliance Energy Trading Mumbai Metro One Nanded Airport CGRF BSES Delhi ------------------------------------- Reliance Entertainment Reliance Big Entertainment Reliance Broadcast Network BIG Productions Reliance Home Video & Games Reliance Animation Reliance Synergy BIG 92.7 FM BIG ADDA BIG Flix Talent House Reliance Games Zapak ------------------------------------- Kokilaben Hospital KDA Nursing College Harmony DAIICT Footer Menu 3 Feedback Copyright Policy Disclaimer Sitemap Copyright  2021 DA-IICT, Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India Visitors: Last Updated: 28-05-2025 Share it Back to Top