Guidelines and syllabus for the entrance exam (PhD in ICT and allied Engineering disciplines)  All candidates intending to pursue research in ICT and Allied Engineering disciplines, except those granted waiver, have to appear for the examination.  The question paper shall consist of two parts. Questions in Part-I will be on Engineering Mathematics. For Part-II, the candidate has to attempt any one of the following subject papers: (a) Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), (b) Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE).  The candidates will be administered the appropriate exam based on the preference chosen in the application form.  The exam will consist of 20 multiple choice questions to be answered in one hour. For every correct answer, the candidate will receive +4 marks, while for every incorrect answer the candidate will receive a negative 1 mark.  The marks obtained in the exam would be used for shortlisting the candidates for the interview.  During the interview, the questions will be based on the discipline that the candidate appeared for in the entrance exam. Candidates may also be asked questions on their undergraduate/postgraduate projects.  Syllabus: Mathematics: A set of 5 questions will be based on Mathematics, the syllabus for which is common to both CSE and ECE candidates. o Discrete Structures o Calculus o Basic Linear Algebra o Basic Probability Theory o Basic Computer Programming Computer Science and Engineering: For candidates aligned to Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) area, the remaining 15 questions will be based on the following five areas of undergraduate Computer Science and Engineering curriculum. o Data Structures and Algorithms o Operating Systems o Database Systems o Computer Networks o Theory of Computing Electronics and Communication Engineering: For candidates aligned to Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) area, the remaining 15 questions will be based on the following five areas of undergraduate Electronics and Communication Engineering curriculum. o Basic Electrical and Electronic Circuits o Signals and Systems o Analog and Digital Communications o Digital Signal Processing o Electromagnetic Theory