Ph.D. (Regular & Part-Time) Admissions | Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology Admissions Enquire Now! displayNone displayNone Accessibility Menu Contrast View Text Resize Skip to Main Content Screen Reader Access Pause Animations Pause Cursor Admissions 2025 Open | Summer Research Internship at DAU Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology, Gandhinagar PG Admissions 2023 Announced | Ph.D. Admissions 2023 Announced | Admission Helpline - Voice call: 080 66 91 91 80 M.Tech. (EC) - last date 28 th April 2022 Admission Helpline - Voice call: 080 66 91 91 80 UG Admissions - All India Category - Admission Status Announced Top Right Side Menu DCEI CEP NAAC NIRF NEP 2020 Alumni Alumni Document Service Grievance Redressal ICC Policies Tenders Contact logo Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology A Private University Established by The State Government of Gujarat Act search search Search Daiict Menu About Us Governance Founder President Board of Governors Director Academic Council Finance Committee Deans Dean (Faculty) Dean (Academic Programs) Dean (Research) Dean (Students) Executive Registrar IQAC Organogram Academics Board Of Studies Programs of Study UG Programs PG Programs Doctoral Program Academic Areas Dean's Office Faculty Academic Calendar Courses at Moodle Examination Department Orientation Program Research Research Overview Dean's Office Areas AI, ML and Data Science Algorithms and Theory of Computation Communications and Signal Processing Humanities, Social Sciences and Design Physics and Mathematical Sciences Software Systems and Networking VLSI & Embedded Systems Sponsored Projects Noteworthy Contributions Accomplishments Outreach and Contributions Publications Theses and Reports IRB Student Research Award People Faculty Staff Doctoral Scholars Parents Alumni Students Student Body Government Student Committees Student Clubs IEEE Student Branch Dean's Office Achievements Admissions Why choose DA-IICT? Undergraduate Admissions Postgraduate Admissions Ph.D. Admissions Scholarships Infrastructure Resource Centre ICT Infrastructure Lecture Complex Laboratory Complex Halls of Residence Food Court Medical Facility Campus Security Sports Complex Placements About Placements Placement News & Updates Careers Faculty Positions Faculty on Tenure Faculty on Contract Postdoc Positions Project Positions Non-Teaching Staff Positions Ph.D. (Regular & Part-Time) Admissions Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Admissions  All India Category Ph.D. Admissions displayNone Ph.D. (Regular & Part-Time) Ph.D. (Rolling) Admissions in Ph.D. programs at DA-IICT is possible through two channels. These are 1. Ph.D. (Regular & Part-Time) 2. Ph.D. (Rolling) DA-IICT aspires to take a leading role in the research areas related to Information and Communication Technology (ICT). The research interest of faculty members is widely spread in the areas of ICT and Humanities, Social Sciences, Design and Arts. The doctoral program leading towards the award of the degree of Doctorate of Philosophy (Ph.D.) provides the prospective students an opportunity to carry out innovative research that would strengthen ICT R&D activities in academia, governance and industry. Apply Now Important Dates Program Overview Program Structure Intake Eligibility Criteria Selection Criteria Fees Structure Stipend/Fellowship How to apply FAQs For Inquiries Submission of Online Application Form 21 March 2025 Submission of Online Application Form closes on (Revised) 30 May 2025 Correction / Edit in the Application Form (Any request for modification of the application form will not be entertained after the correction window gets closed) 01 June 2025 (09:00 hrs to 18:00 hrs) Entrance Examination for Candidates not called for direct interview 15 June 2025 Announcement of list of candidates called for interview TBD Date of Interview TBD Announcement of Result TBD Registration and Document Verification TBD Commencement of classes TBD DA-IICT invites applications from bright scholars interested in pursuing research in ICT and other allied domains. The doctoral program at DA-IICT is an intense program geared towards preparing students for careers both in academia and industry. Research at DA-IICT is conducted in ICT & allied Engineering disciplines, Mathematical, Physical & Computational Sciences, Humanities, Arts, Social Sciences & Design. Candidates interested in any of these disciplines, or in interdisciplinary areas, are encouraged to apply. The details of the members of faculty and their research interests can be found here AI, ML and Data Science Algorithms and Theory of Computation Communications and Signal Processing Humanities, Social Sciences and Design Physics and Mathematical Sciences Software Systems and Networking VLSI & Embedded Systems The details of the faculty members with their research interests can be found here . Candidates are advised to interact and discuss their prospective research supervision with faculty members over email and/or in person. To learn about some research problems of immediate interest to the members of faculty see here Candidates may seek admission to one of the following categories: Full-time Sponsored Part-time External Part-time The PhD program comprises of both course and research work. The amount of coursework one has to undergo depends on the candidates' educational qualification and the research one is engaged in. The research work to be undertaken for PhD must include original contributions to the knowledge reserve culminating in a thesis to be submitted for the doctoral degree. The detailed program structure and graduation requirements can be found here . Click Here for details of Sponsored Projects Institute reserves the right to admit as many as candidates depending on their credentials and potential. For Ph.D. (Regular): Discipline Educational qualification ICT and allied Engineering disciplines M.Tech./M.E./M.C.A./M.Sc./M.Phil./B.Tech/B.E. or equivalent degree in ICT / CS / EC / IT / EE / IN / Mathematics / Statistics / Physics / Bioinformatics / Electronics or other appropriate disciplines with 60% marks or its equivalent in the qualifying degree as per the norms set by degree awarding Institute / University. Mathematical, Physical, and Computational Sciences M.Sc./M.Tech./M.Phil./B.Tech./B.E. or equivalent degree in Engineering Physics / Computational Science / Computer Science / Scientific Computing / Physics / Mathematics / Electronics / Bioinformatics or other appropriate disciplines with 60% marks or its equivalent as per the norms set by the degree awarding Institute / University. Humanities, Arts, Social Sciences, and Design (English, Modern History, Social & Cultural Anthropology, Comparative Literature, Philosophy, Cultural & Media Studies and Design) M.A./M.Phil. or an equivalent degree in the desired discipline with at least 55% marks or equivalent as per the norms set by the degree awarding Institute / University. For Ph.D. (Part-Time): Category Work experience Sponsored Part-time A candidate who intends to apply in the Sponsored Part-time category must be currently employed at an Organisation with which DA-IICT has established MoU. The work experience required will be as mentioned in the MoU. The candidate should forward his/her application through the proper channel; i.e., through a sponsorship certificate / letter issued by the head of the department / organisation. A template for the sponsorship letter is available here External Part-time A candidate who intends to apply in the External Part-time category must be currently employed at an R&D Organisation or University / Institution and must have at least two years of relevant experience. The candidate should submit a no objection certificate (NOC) issued by the head of the organisation / institution. A template for the NOC is available here A candidate applying under the Sponsored/External Part-time category has to submit a letter of recommendation (LoR) from a prospective PhD supervisor at DA-IICT. The LoR should clearly state the scope and a broad definition of the research problem the candidate would work on. [A template for the LoR is available here .] Note: Obtaining an LoR from a member of faculty at DA-IICT does not mean that the applicant is admitted to the PhD program. Note: The decision of the Competent Authorities of DA-IICT regarding eligibility of any candidate shall be final . Selection Criteria for Ph.D. (Regular & Part-Time) Admissions: Candidates have to qualify for an interview based on an entrance test. Entrance Test: A pen-paper test will be conducted at DAIICT Gandhinagar, followed by personal interview at DA-IICT. Candidates intending to pursue research in ICT and Allied Engineering disciplines need to attempt a two parts exam. Part-I of the exam will be on Engineering Mathematics. For Part-II, the candidate has to attempt any one of the following subject papers: (a) Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), (b) Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE). The guidelines and syllabus for these can be found here . For sample questions, see CSE | ECE . Candidates intending to pursue research in Mathematical, Physical, and Computational Sciences disciplines need to attempt any one of the following subject papers: (a) Mathematics (MA), (b) Physics (PH). The question paper for Physics will comprise of two part; viz., Part-I with questions on basic topics in Mathematics for Physicists, and Part-II will be for topics in Physics. The guidelines and syllabus for these can be found here . For sample questions, see Mathematics (MA) , Physics (PH) Candidates intending to pursue research in Humanities, Arts, Social Sciences and Design disciplines will have a common question paper. In line with DA-IICT's emphasis on interdisciplinary pedagogy and research, the question paper is prepared keeping in mind the full range of the HASSD disciplines. All competent candidates from any of these disciplines will be able to attempt the question paper. The answers should be clear and cogent, and should at the same time reflect the candidate's critical thinking skills. A sample question paper is available here . Entrance Test waiver: Candidates meeting any of the following conditions can avail a waiver for the entrance test: Valid GATE score Valid NET qualification Awarded with an MS by Research degree of an IIT or IISc or IIIT Awarded with an MTech degree of DA-IICT along with a CPI > 8.0 Selected for DST Inspire / NBHM / JEST / UGC / CSIR PhD fellowship Applying under the Sponsored Part-time Category Applying under the External Part-time Category Interview: Candidates short-listed on the basis of the Entrance Test or who have availed a waiver for the entrance Test should appear for an interview to be held at DA-IICT on the date mentioned in the Important Dates webpage of the Admissions webportal. During the interview, the candidates will be evaluated on foundational as well as specialized topics of their educational background and research interests. For this purpose, the candidates have to submit a one-page statement of purpose (SoP) as a part of their application. A set of guidelines for preparing a SoP is available here The Ph.D. interview will be held physically at DA-IICT, Gandhinagar. The shortlisted Ph.D. (Regular) candidates for entrance test / interview will be provided to and fro sleeper class train fare from the nearest railway station as per the communication address mentioned in their application. The lodging will be provided at DA-IICT. Merit list : Final merit list for admissions into the program will be prepared on the basis of the performance in the Entrance Test, wherever applicable and/or the performance in the Interview. Candidates with M.Sc./M.C.A., unless they have a subsequent M. Phil. degree will be considered equivalent to candidate with a B.Tech./B.E. degree and are required to fulfil (additional) course and research requirements. DA-IICT reserves right to relax eligibility criteria for the sponsored category for deserving candidates based on candidates research profile and experience. The decision of the Competent Authorities of DA-IICT regarding eligibility of any candidate shall be final. Age There is no age limit applicable to this program. At the time of admission an amount of Rs. 50,000/- (Rs. 25,000/- towards tuition fee for the first Semester and Rs. 25,000/- towards caution deposit) is to be paid. Mode of payment will be informed. The registration fee is payable at the time of registration and hostel rent on allotment of the hostel room. Tuition fee Rs. 25,000 per Semester, applicable from academic year 2024-2025. Registration Fee Rs. 2,500 per Semester Caution Deposit Rs. 25,000 (Refundable at the end of the Program) Hostel Rent Rs. 35,000 per semester Food On actuals. There are multiple food options available in the campus (The expense will be approximately Rs. 5,500 per month) Subject to revision every Academic Year from 8 to 10%. Refund Policy The refund policy for the withdrawing candidates will be in accordance with the UGC rules. Financial assistance : The following is a summary of financial assistance provided by the institute to the non-sponsored category students. DA-IICT fellowship : With effect from July 2024-25 session, all those admitted as full-time PhD students will be eligible for financial support (fellowship) in the form of Teaching Assistantship (TA)/Research Assistantships (RAs). The fellowship is for a maximum duration of five years. The responsibilities associated with the teaching / research assistantship includes conducting laboratory courses and tutorials for undergraduate students, assisting in teaching, research projects, and academic administration. For the first two years the fellowship would be Rs. 35,000 per month. From the third year the fellowship will be revised to Rs. 40,000/- per month upto the fifth year. TCS Research Fellowship : The Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) has recognized DA-IICT as one of the Institutions to administer the TCS Research Scholar Program. This prestigious program provides attractive doctoral fellowships to full-time students pursuing PhD programs in selected areas. The eligibility and other details are as follows: Registered for a full-time PhD program. Within 28 years of age as on admission into fellowship Completed 2 semesters and should be in 2nd year of Ph.D having a brilliant academic background. Research involving computing. Scholars need to declare other PhD scholarships applied for at the time of applying and if selected by TCS, at the time of announcement. Period : For a maximum of four years or submission of thesis, whichever is earlier. Fellowship : Rs. 70,000 per month for the first year, Rs. 91,000 per month for the second year, Rs. 97,500 per month for the third year and fourth year. Additional Stipend of a total of Rs. 90,000 for sabbatical to foreign university to eligible scholar for up to six months. Other Incentives are : Assignment of TCS Mentor from TCS Research and innovation team (R&I) soon after selection to TCS Research Scholar Program. Benefits worth INR 8,60,000 over 4 years for supporting actual expenses for ( a ) Laptops and Books up to INR 1.7 Lakhs ( b ) National Conference for Scholar up to INR 0.5 lakhs ( c) International Conference for Scholar up to INR 2.2 Lakhs ( d ) 1-time International Conference for Guide up to INR 1.5 lakhs ( e ) Travel and settling cost for sabbatical to foreign university to eligible scholar up to INR 2.2 Lakhs ( f ) Visit to TCS Innovation Labs up to INR 0.5 Lakhs Selection: Institute will invite applications from students who are offered PhD admission in the applicable format, and recommend suitable candidates to TCS. TCS reserves the right of final selection for the award of the fellowship. Further, TCS reserves the right to conduct an interview of a scholar(s) if it deems necessary for the selection for the scheme. In such cases, interviews will be conducted in one of the TCS Innovation Labs and candidates may have to travel to the designated lab for the interview. TCS will reimburse the travel. Other Fellowships : Candidates who have been selected for DST Inspire / PM Scholarship / Visweshvaraya PhD scheme and other appropriate fellowships and admitted to the program can avail their fellowship. Submit online application form by clicking on the link given below. Application fee (non-refundable) is Rs. 300/- (including GST@ 18%). Click here to apply online Submit a statement of purpose. [A set of guidelines for preparing a SoP is available here .] A candidate applying under the Full-time category and availing a waiver for the entrance test has to submit relevant documents which validate that (s)he fulfils the condition(s). A candidate applying under the Sponsored Part-time category has to submit a sponsorship certificate/letter issued by the head of the department/organisation. [A template for the sponsorship letter is available here .] A candidate applying under the External Part-time category has to submit a no objection certificate issued by the head of the organisation/institution. [A template for the NOC is available here .] A candidate applying under the Sponsored/External Part-time category has to submit a letter of recommendation (LoR) from a prospective PhD supervisor at DA-IICT. The LoR should clearly state the scope and a broad definition of the research problem the candidate would work on. [A template for the LoR is available here .] Note : Obtaining an LoR from a member of faculty at DA-IICT does not mean that the applicant is admitted to the PhD program. The Candidate has to satisfy the eligibility criteria in order for her/his application to be considered for admission into the PhD. program. Applicants who have not been invited directly for the interview are required to appear for DAIICTs PhD Entrance Test. The candidates shortlisted based on either their performance in the DA-IICT PhD entrance test OR invited directly for interview, have to appear for personal interview. In the interview, the candidates will be evaluated by a panel of expert faculty on foundational as well as specialized topics of their background and research interests. For this purpose, the candidates have to submit a one page statement of purpose as a part of their application. Final merit list for admission into the program will be prepared based on the written test (wherever applicable) and/or the interview. The candidates who have accepted admission offers will be notified to appear for registration, followed by document verification, payment of fees and on confirmation of admission, the orientation program. Interview and Admission Offer List of candidates selected for admission to the Ph.D. Program will be posted on the website of DA-IICT, and the candidates will be intimated accordingly through post and/or email. The frequently asked questions (FAQs) for the Ph.D. (Regular & Part-Time) program can be found here Voice Call: 079 69 08 08 08 Email: pg_admissions[at]daiict[dot]ac[dot]in Contact Us Text DA-IICT, DA-IICT Road, Gandhinagar 382 007, Gujarat (India) Text For Admission Enquiries Text (+91) 079 - 6826 1700 Text (+91) 079 - 6826 1710 Text info[at]daiict[dot]ac[dot]in For Admissions Voice Call: Text 079 69 08 08 08 Support Ticket: Click here Follow Us On facebook twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn blogIcon Admissions displayNone Undergraduate displayNone Postgraduate displayNone Doctoral Program displayNone Scholarships Research displayNone Research Overview displayNone Deans Office displayNone Areas displayNone Sponsored Projects displayNone Faculty Achievements displayNone Publications displayNone Theses and Reports Academics displayNone Undergraduate displayNone Postgraduate displayNone Doctoral displayNone Stakeholder Feedback People displayNone Faculty displayNone Staff displayNone Doctoral Scholars NAAC displayNone NAAC Cycle 2 SSR Submitted: 2023 displayNone SSR & Evaluative Reports Addendum 2017 displayNone displayNone SSR 2015 displayNone displayNone Evaluative Report 2015 displayNone CoE, Government of Gujarat displayNone Application submitted displayNone Audited Accounts displayNone Meeting of the Governing Bodies NIRF displayNone INDIA Ranking 2025 DCS Submitted INDIA Ranking 2020 DCS Submitted Other Links displayNone UGC proforma/Mandatory disclosure displayNone displayNone e-Procurement displayNone displayNone Prof. S.C. Sahasrabudhe - A Memoir displayNone Holidays 2025 displayNone displayNone Ecampus displayNone displayNone Intranet displayNone displayNone Courses displayNone displayNone Capacity Development and Skills Enhancement Initiatives displayNone Parents displayNone CEP displayNone DCEI displayNone displayNone Committees displayNone displayNone Anti-Ragging Committee displayNone displayNone DA-IICT Lecture Series displayNone Synapse displayNone displayNone Concours displayNone displayNone Tree Survey displayNone Newsletter displayNone Directory displayNone Photo Gallery Group Website Choose a Group Website: ----------- Group Websites ------------ Reliance Group ------------------------------------- Reliance Communications Reliance Digital TV Global Cloud Xchange Reliance Globalcall ------------------------------------- Reliance Capital RARCL Reliance Securities Reliance PMS Reliance General Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Reliance Commercial Finance Reliance Mutual Fund ------------------------------------- Reliance Infrastructure Reliance Energy Reliance Power Reliance Roads Reliance Cements Reliance Energy Trading Mumbai Metro One Nanded Airport CGRF BSES Delhi ------------------------------------- Reliance Entertainment Reliance Big Entertainment Reliance Broadcast Network BIG Productions Reliance Home Video & Games Reliance Animation Reliance Synergy BIG 92.7 FM BIG ADDA BIG Flix Talent House Reliance Games Zapak ------------------------------------- Kokilaben Hospital KDA Nursing College Harmony DAIICT Footer Menu 3 Feedback Copyright Policy Disclaimer Sitemap Copyright  2021 DA-IICT, Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India Visitors: Last Updated: 28-05-2025 Share it Back to Top