Undergraduate Admissions - NRI and Foreign National (DAFS) Category | Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology Admissions Enquire Now! displayNone displayNone Accessibility Menu Contrast View Text Resize Skip to Main Content Screen Reader Access Pause Animations Pause Cursor Admissions 2025 Open | Summer Research Internship at DAU Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology, Gandhinagar PG Admissions 2023 Announced | Ph.D. Admissions 2023 Announced | Admission Helpline - Voice call: 080 66 91 91 80 M.Tech. (EC) - last date 28 th April 2022 Admission Helpline - Voice call: 080 66 91 91 80 UG Admissions - All India Category - Admission Status Announced Top Right Side Menu DCEI CEP NAAC NIRF NEP 2020 Alumni Alumni Document Service Grievance Redressal ICC Policies Tenders Contact logo Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology A Private University Established by The State Government of Gujarat Act search search Search Daiict Menu About Us Governance Founder President Board of Governors Director Academic Council Finance Committee Deans Dean (Faculty) Dean (Academic Programs) Dean (Research) Dean (Students) Executive Registrar IQAC Organogram Academics Board Of Studies Programs of Study UG Programs PG Programs Doctoral Program Academic Areas Dean's Office Faculty Academic Calendar Courses at Moodle Examination Department Orientation Program Research Research Overview Dean's Office Areas AI, ML and Data Science Algorithms and Theory of Computation Communications and Signal Processing Humanities, Social Sciences and Design Physics and Mathematical Sciences Software Systems and Networking VLSI & Embedded Systems Sponsored Projects Noteworthy Contributions Accomplishments Outreach and Contributions Publications Theses and Reports IRB Student Research Award People Faculty Staff Doctoral Scholars Parents Alumni Students Student Body Government Student Committees Student Clubs IEEE Student Branch Dean's Office Achievements Admissions Why choose DA-IICT? Undergraduate Admissions Postgraduate Admissions Ph.D. Admissions Scholarships Infrastructure Resource Centre ICT Infrastructure Lecture Complex Laboratory Complex Halls of Residence Food Court Medical Facility Campus Security Sports Complex Placements About Placements Placement News & Updates Careers Faculty Positions Faculty on Tenure Faculty on Contract Postdoc Positions Project Positions Non-Teaching Staff Positions Undergraduate Admissions - NRI and Foreign National (DAFS) Category Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Admissions - NRI and Foreign National (DAFS)... UG Programs displayNone Undergraduate Admissions B.Tech. (ICT) B.Tech. (Honours) in ICT with minor in Computational Science B.Tech. (MnC) B.Tech. (EVD) Apply Now Important Dates Intake Program Structure Placement Statistics Eligibility Criteria Admission Criteria Fee Structure Scholarships How to Apply Admission Procedures Post-Admission Procedures FAQs For Inquiries Important Notes Filling of online Application Forms commences on 08 April 2025 Last date for receiving completed Application Form for First Round 18 May 2025 Announcement of First Round of Admissions 26 May 2025 Filling of online Application Forms ( second round ) commences on 21 May 2025 Last date for receiving completed Application Form for Second Round (If the seats remain vacant after First Round) 01 June 2025 Announcement of Second Round of Admissions 06 June 2025 Last date for receiving completed Application Form for Third Round (If the seats remain vacant after Second Round) 15 June 2025 Announcement of Third Round of Admissions 3rd Week of June 2025 Registration and document verification at DA-IICT campus for confirmed candidates TBD Orientation Program TBD Commencement of classes TBD Number of seats: 64 B.Tech. Information and Communication Technology (ICT)  37 B.Tech. (Honours) in ICT with minor in Computational Science  13 B.Tech. Mathematics and Computing  09 B.Tech. Electronics and VLSI Design  05 B.Tech. Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Information & Communication Technology (ICT) embodies the convergence of Computer and Communication systems and has obtained wide acceptance as a distinct discipline. ICT is considered to be a discipline dealing with accessing, storage, processing, transmission, reception and display of information, primarily using digital systems and techniques. The curriculum in the B.Tech. (ICT) program tries to address the optimized convergence of existing Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) as well as Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) disciplines by identifying the broad areas of performance capabilities. It is also expected that B.Tech. (ICT) graduates would enjoy a special niche only if they have certain performance capabilities not found in conventional CSE and/or ECE graduates. For details of the program click here . The program brochure can be found here . B.Tech. (Honours) in ICT with minor in Computational Science Computational Science is concerned with constructing mathematical models, simulating and quantitative analysis techniques, and using computers to analyze and solve scientific problems with applications in engineering and social sciences. In Computational Science, unlike the traditional theoretical and experimental approaches, scientists and engineers gain understanding mainly through the analysis of mathematical models implemented on computers. Typically, these models require massive amounts of calculations and are often executed on high performance computing backbone consisting of supercomputers or distributed computing or several inter-connected clusters of workstations and personal computers. The curriculum in B.Tech. (Honours) in ICT with minor in Computational Science aims to provide expertise to the students in techniques involved in modelling and simulation of complex and large scale systems, implementation on computers through parallel and high performance computing techniques and finally analysis and visualization of these large scale data sets. Further details of the program are available here . To complete the B.Tech. (Honours) in ICT with minor in Computational Science Program successfully, the students have to take additional 18-24 credits worth of courses besides the usual ICT courses. The student must obtain a minimum CPI of 6.5 after completion of third Semester to continue in the program failing which she/he will be moved to the B.Tech. (ICT) Program. The students who have obtained a CPI of 7.5 and above may apply at the end of the third Semester for transfer to the B.Tech. (Computational Science) Program and the transfer will be granted only subject to availability of seats and in descending order from the highest CPI obtained. The program brochure can be found here . B.Tech. Mathematics and Computing (MnC) Mathematics and Computing (MnC) is a fusion of Mathematics and Computer Science that has obtained wide acceptance as a distinct discipline over the past few years. It arises out of dealing with Mathematics as a fundamental tool in computing and with Computing as a primary component of mathematical problem solving. The program has been specially designed to meet the increasing needs of professionals who would be able to respond to the convergence between mathematical and computational problem solving. The program aims at expanding the mathematical, algorithmic and computational thinking of students and at providing sufficient and solid foundation for skill development in MnC. A strong mathematical foundation would enable the study and analysis of abstract concepts and to model many real life problems mathematically, algorithmic thinking would provide ways to solve these mathematical problems in an automated way and computational thinking would allow for evaluating the efficiency of these solutions. The program aims to provide exposure to the students who wish to build a professional career in MnC, working at the cutting edge of technology, research and development. On successful completion of the program, the students would have acquired essential theoretical, technical and practical knowledge for solving real-world problems, and will have the ability to demonstrate excellent analytical, logical and problem solving skills. The students would have also acquired social and ethical attributes that would enable them in applying their skills for societal needs with effective communication both orally and in writing. For details of the program click here The program brochure can be found here . B.Tech. Electronics and VLSI Design (EVD) Semiconductor integrated circuits (ICs) are the backbone of the current revolution in electronics and computing. The Indian government has recently launched India Semiconductor Mission with a vision to enable India's emergence as a global hub in electronics manufacturing and design. Given the increasing interest of the nation in semiconductor manufacturing and R&D, the sector is likely to witness a spike in demand for engineers with semiconductor know-how. The objective of the B.Tech. in Electronics and VLSI Design (EVD) is to create industry ready undergraduate manpower for the semiconductor industry. The focus of the Electronics and VLSI Design program is to impart state-of-the-art knowledge of advancing semiconductor and VLSI design along with development of embedded processors and high-performance computing systems those are used in modern electronic products. The graduates of this program will be able to design hardware and software, conceptualize, implement circuits and systems, build computing systems along with realization of next generation portable consumer electronics like mobile phones, tabs, bio-medical devices, modern communication systems and gaming devices The students will get exposure and hands-on training on various industry standard electronic design automation (EDA) tools such as Cadence, Synopsys, OrCad, MATLAB, Xilinx etc. and hardware boards viz. FPGA, CPLD, etc. to design integrated circuits. Students will also gain direct industry experience through internships. The rural internship during their course will enable students to appreciate the socio-cultural aspect of the Indian society and motivate to explore electronic based solutions to some prevailing needs of the rural India. The program also includes compulsory summer research internships to be taken up at research organization labs. Electronics and VLSI Design is an interdisciplinary program, allowing students to take various courses ranging from Circuits and Systems, Solid State Devices, VLSI Technology, Embedded Processors, Sensors and Systems, Real Time Operating Systems, IoT, Secure Devices, MEMS along with opportunity to take various discipline and free electives. Currently, there are two pathways offered to the students where he / she can take elective courses leading to specialization in: Electronic System Design VLSI Design For more details of the program, click The program brochure can be found here . Placement Statistics for the Last Five Years - Undergraduate Programs: Highest CTC: 82.00 LPA Average CTC: 18.25 LPA Prominent Recruiters: Eligibility for applying under Direct Admission of Foreign and NRI Students (DAFS) category For the purpose of admissions into the B Tech programs, the following categories of applicants will be considered as Non- Resident Indians: Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) Card holders. Persons of Indian Origin (PIO) Card Holders. Certificates of Non Resident Indian issued by the Indian Embassy/Indian Consulate of the Country where the Non Resident Indian is residing. Passport of an applicant indicating his status as 'Non Resident Indian. Persons who have studied outside India and have passed either 10th or 12th standard (or must be appearing for the examination in the year of admission) or equivalent from any system of education subject to the eligibility criteria stipulated below. Either of the parent of the applicant residing abroad and submits documentary proof that he/she is a Non Resident Indian (e.g. letter from the Indian Embassy/Consulate). The NRI status should be valid until 31st August of the year of admission. Foreign Nationals (FN): A person having citizenship of a foreign country (citizens other than India) and not having the status of NRI. Eligibility Criteria 1. Only those candidates whose date of birth falls on or after 01 October 2000 are eligible to apply. The date of birth as recorded in the 10th or 12th standard certificate, issued by the Board/Examination Authority will be taken as authentic. Candidates must produce this certificate in original as proof of their age at the time of admission/counseling. 2. Candidates must have passed or must be appearing in the year of application the qualifying examination, i.e., XII standard or equivalent from any system of education as recognized by the Association of Indian University (AIU), New Delhi in Physics, Mathematics and Chemistry/Computer Science/Biotechnology/ Biology and must have secured a minimum GPA of 6 on a 10-point scale, if grades are awarded. In case marks are awarded, candidates must have secured minimum 60% aggregate in Physics, Mathematics and Chemistry/Computer Science /Biotechnology/Biology of the qualifying examination. 3. Candidates who have completed the Class 12 (or equivalent) examination outside India or from any Board other than CBSE/ICSE/GHSEB/Any Indian Board should produce a certificate from the Association of Indian Universities (AIU) to the effect that the examination they have passed is equivalent to the Class 12 Examination. If the passing board of the qualifying examination is a foreign board having centre/s in India, approval letter issued to such school/centre by the respective State Government Education Department shall be required along with AIU equivalence certificate. 4. Candidates who are appearing in the qualifying examination in the year of admission will be considered for provisional admission based on the submission of transcripts of their 11th standard and the first semester of their 12th standard (if issued) duly certified by their school authorities. All such candidates will be required to produce the proof of having passed the qualifying examination (XII standard or equivalent) latest by 30th October 2025 failing which the admission will stand cancelled. Along with the minimum eligibility criteria as mentioned in point (a) if the candidate fulfills any one of the admission criteria as mentioned in point (b) then the candidate will be offered admission letter. (a) Those who meet the eligibility criteria as pronounced above in Sl. No. 1 to 4. (b) If the students have passed qualifying examination from India, they should have appeared and secured All India Rank in JEE (Main) 2025 with a minimum score of 75 percentile to be considered eligible for admission. OR Those candidates who have appeared for qualifying examination (XII standard or equivalent) outside India and have SAT score with a minimum score of 1070. OR Those who have appeared for qualifying examination (XII standard or equivalent) outside India and secured in their XII Board final examinations separately an aggregate minimum GPA of 7 on a 10-point scale or 70% aggregate minimum marks in Physics and Mathematics. (If XII final examination is not conducted by the Board, the score of final examination conducted by the School will be accepted). Applications successfully received for DAFS category in all aspects till 18 May 2025 will be considered for the first round of admissions which will be announced by third week of May 2025. Based on the applications received and availability of Vacant seats further rounds will be announced as follows. If the seats remain vacant the second round of admission announcement will be done in the First week of June. Last date of application for second round is 01 June 2025. If the seat still remains vacant the third round of admission announcement will be done in the third week of June. Last date of application for third round is 15 June 2025. Further Round will be announced in case there are vacant seats available. Tuition fee US $5,000 per semester Registration Fee US $ 100 per semester Caution Deposit US $1,000 (Refundable at the end of the Program) Hostel Rent US $500 per semester Food Mandatory Mess for the first year students. As per actual, as charged by the canteen/cafeteria. There are multiple food options available in the campus from 2nd year. (These expenses will be approximately US $80 per month) On accepting admission, an amount of US $ 6,000 or its equivalent amount in Indian rupees at the time of payment (US$ 5,000 towards Tuition Fee for the First Semester, $ 1,000 as Caution Deposit) and at the time of registration US $ 600 (Registration Fee US$ 100 and Hostel Rent US$ 500) is payable. The fees can be paid in Indian rupees by bank transfer at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of payment. The last date for paying this fee will be notified to the candidate in the admission offer. If a candidate accepts the admission by paying the above amount but does not join, then only the caution deposit will be refunded. Subsequently, fees are charged semester-wise, with the registration at the beginning of each semester. For B.Tech. (EVD) Value Added Course 1 Fee: A value added course - SHILP (on Device Fabrication and Characterization) with CEERI Pilani is scheduled in Summer Break after the 2nd semester for B.Tech. (EVD) students. The fee for this value added course is Rs. 15,500 and to be paid along with the 2nd semester tuition fee. Value Added Course 2 Fee: To support the Digital IC Design and Tape Out in the fourth semester, a value added state-of-the-art Industrial Skill Development Course on VLSI Chip Design & Fabrication is scheduled in the semester. The important takeaway is to provide hands-on training that will give students an in-depth understanding of fabrication, process, and characterisation, nurture their technical skills, gain practical experience in product development and make them industry-ready. The fee for this value-added course that will support the student to get fabricated chip from a Chip foundry, is around Rs. 25,000 per student and it is to be paid along with the fourth-semester tuition fees. Additional value added courses if organized by the institute, the details about the corresponding course and fee will be intimated to the students well in advance. . Subject to revision Admission of all the international students will be done through the International Student Cell (ISC), Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology. A student wishing to join the Institute should: There is one single online application form for B.Tech which includes B.Tech. (ICT), B.Tech (Honours) in ICT with minor in CS, B Tech (MnC) and B.Tech. (EVD) programs. Applicants have to select preferences in order of their programs of choice. Submit the online application form by clicking on the link here and selecting B Tech (DAFS) from the Select Program drop down menu, along with the details of the Application Fee (non-refundable) of US $150 and following documents on or before the due date: 12th Standard or equivalent mark sheet. Candidates whose 12th standard or equivalent transcripts/mark sheets are not available at the time of application will have to upload transcripts/mark sheets for the last two years (11th and first semester of their 12th standard). SAT/JEE Main Test scores. Certificate/document from the appropriate authority indicating the residency status (NRI/Foreign). For NRI candidates for example, embassy certificate and for Foreign Nationals a copy of their passports. Applications successfully received for DAFS category in all aspects till 18 May 2025 will be considered for the first round of admissions which will be announced by third week of May 2025. Based on the applications received and availability of Vacant seats further rounds will be announced as follows. If the seats remain vacant the second round of admission announcement will be done in the First week of June. Last date of application for second round is 01 June 2025. If the seat still remains vacant the third round of admission announcement will be done in the third week of June. Last date of application for third round is 15 June 2025. Further Round will be announced in case there are vacant seats available. The students who have studied outside INDIA must register at the "Study in India" portal. https://studyinindia.gov.in/admission/registrations If the foreign national students application for admission is approved by the ISC, the candidate would be issued a provisional admission letter in due course for getting the student VISA to India. It is the responsibility of the candidate to secure the student VISA and have it endorsed to the Institute. It is also the responsibility of the candidate to obtain all other government clearances as applicable from time to time. However, the ISC through the Executive Registrars office will guide the candidate regarding the applicable requirements. NRIs, OCI and PIO card holders do not require VISA . On accepting admission, an amount of US $ 6,000 or its equivalent amount in Indian Rupees at the time of payment ($ 5,000 towards Tuition Fee for the First Semester, and $ 1,000 towards Caution Deposit) is to be paid either through Bank Transfer at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of payment. The last date for paying this amount will be notified to the candidate in the admission offer. If a candidate accepts the admission by paying the above amount but does not join, then only the caution deposit will be refunded. The Institute reserves the right to revise the fee and the payment structure as may be decided by it from time to time. Admission Formalities: The candidate must report to the Institute by the designated dates for completion of admission formalities, inclusive of registration, payment of registration fee and Hostel Charges. Document Verification: The candidate must submit the following original documents for verification at the time of reporting. Passport with Valid VISA (foreign national only). OCI/ POI Card. Certificate of Non Resident Indian Status issued by The Indian Embassy/Consulate or a passport of Applicant indicating her/his status as Non Resident Indian. Copies of any other documents from government authorities regarding the status of the international student. Degree / Pass certificate of qualifying examination(s). All mark lists / grade reports of qualifying examination(s) (Semester-wise) and score cards of SAT/JEE test. Letter from local guardian (if available). Contact details of person to be informed in case of emergency. Information about allergies, necessity of regular medication or any other physical or mental health issues. (It is recommended that students who are on medication must carry on their person a one week supply of medication). For Exchange Students: Letter from the concerned authority at the home institution. Note: The original certificates will be returned to the students immediately after making necessary endorsements. Medical Examination: Undergo medical examination and obtain a medical fitness certificate. As per the Government of India rules, all persons entering India on student VISA have to undergo a medical examination as prescribed by the Government of India. ISC through the Executive Registrars office would coordinate and facilitate the medical examination of international students through the institutes facilities; the cost would be borne by the student. The result of the medical test would be communicated to the ISC and placed in the student file after consulting the Medical Officer of the Institute. Admission may be denied on health grounds at the discretion of DA-IICT on the advice of the Medical Officer of the Institute. Health Insurance: The Institute will arrange medical insurance for all students admitted including international students on payment of a modest premium. The international students, particularly foreign nationals, have an option to take international medical insurance from their country of origin. In this case, they must submit a copy of the policy to the Executive Registrars office on the date of registration. The premium for the health insurance will be borne by the student. Police Registration: Foreign national students are required to register with the local police authorities within a week of arrival. The Executive Registrars office will provide assistance for the same. Hostel Accommodation: The B. Tech Programs are residential. All students admitted to the B. Tech program must compulsorily reside on campus. The fees charged would be as per the rules in force. For International Exchange Students, hostel accommodation would be provided as per the terms of the MoU under which the exchange program is implemented. The fees charged would be as specified in the MoU or exchange agreement. Note: The candidates admitted under NRI/Foreign Student category must continue within this category throughout their studies and are not eligible to switch over to the other categories of admission. International Students Cell Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology (DA-IICT) DA-IICT Road, Gandhinagar  382 007, Gujarat, India. Voice call helpline: (+91) 8488876445 (Only for NRI/ Foreign national category candidates) Email: ug_admissions[at]daiict[dot]ac[dot]in Email: international_students[at]daiict[dot]ac[dot]in Voice call helpline: (+91) 8488876445 ( Only for NRI/ Foreign national category candidates ) The frequently asked questions (FAQs) for the B.Tech. programs can be found here . Scholarships at DA-IICT DA-IICT encourages bright young students to join its undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral programs. The institute is committed to ensuring that every talented and deserving aspirant has access to its programs. Over the last five years, more than 3500 students across UG and PG have benefitted from the various scholarships offered at DA-IICT. The Institute offers several merit cum means scholarships for students aspiring to join its UG and PG programs. UG and PG aspirants can also apply for scholarships provided by the Government of Gujarat. Additionally, DA-IICT also offers scholarships that have been instituted by its alumni. Aspirants to the PhD program can benefit from the various fellowships available at the Institute. DA-IICT Direct Admission of Foreign and NRI Students (DAFS) Merit Scholarship The students admitted to the program will be eligible for Merit Scholarships of Rs. 70,000/- per semester. The minimum eligibility for award of Scholarship is an SPI score of 7/10 and above. Based on this eligibility criterion, the Merit Scholarships would be offered to five students from the list of students eligible for Merit Scholarship in each semester. The award of Scholarship is effective from the academic year 2022-23. Other Scholarships Students are encouraged to apply for different other scholarships as follows: Scholarship Programme for Diaspora Children: Website UG Scholarships B.Tech. DAFS Merit Scholarships at DA-IICT | Scholarships Offered to Students The information on admissions 2025 provided are to inform the prospective candidates about the programs and activities of DA-IICT and are subject to change from time to time. The candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations of the Institute as applicable during their course of study at DA-IICT. Students who have failed to achieve the minimum required academic performance at the end of second or fourth semester shall be discontinued from the Institute. Disputes, if any, relating to admission shall be subject to Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India jurisdiction only. Contact Us Text DA-IICT, DA-IICT Road, Gandhinagar 382 007, Gujarat (India) Text For Admission Enquiries Text (+91) 079 - 6826 1700 Text (+91) 079 - 6826 1710 Text info[at]daiict[dot]ac[dot]in For Admissions Voice Call: Text 079 69 08 08 08 Support Ticket: Click here Follow Us On facebook twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn blogIcon Admissions displayNone Undergraduate displayNone Postgraduate displayNone Doctoral Program displayNone Scholarships Research displayNone Research Overview displayNone Deans Office displayNone Areas displayNone Sponsored Projects displayNone Faculty Achievements displayNone Publications displayNone Theses and Reports Academics displayNone Undergraduate displayNone Postgraduate displayNone Doctoral displayNone Stakeholder Feedback People displayNone Faculty displayNone Staff displayNone Doctoral Scholars NAAC displayNone NAAC Cycle 2 SSR Submitted: 2023 displayNone SSR & Evaluative Reports Addendum 2017 displayNone displayNone SSR 2015 displayNone displayNone Evaluative Report 2015 displayNone CoE, Government of Gujarat displayNone Application submitted displayNone Audited Accounts displayNone Meeting of the Governing Bodies NIRF displayNone INDIA Ranking 2025 DCS Submitted INDIA Ranking 2020 DCS Submitted Other Links displayNone UGC proforma/Mandatory disclosure displayNone displayNone e-Procurement displayNone displayNone Prof. S.C. Sahasrabudhe - A Memoir displayNone Holidays 2025 displayNone displayNone Ecampus displayNone displayNone Intranet displayNone displayNone Courses displayNone displayNone Capacity Development and Skills Enhancement Initiatives displayNone Parents displayNone CEP displayNone DCEI displayNone displayNone Committees displayNone displayNone Anti-Ragging Committee displayNone displayNone DA-IICT Lecture Series displayNone Synapse displayNone displayNone Concours displayNone displayNone Tree Survey displayNone Newsletter displayNone Directory displayNone Photo Gallery Group Website Choose a Group Website: ----------- Group Websites ------------ Reliance Group ------------------------------------- Reliance Communications Reliance Digital TV Global Cloud Xchange Reliance Globalcall ------------------------------------- Reliance Capital RARCL Reliance Securities Reliance PMS Reliance General Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Reliance Commercial Finance Reliance Mutual Fund ------------------------------------- Reliance Infrastructure Reliance Energy Reliance Power Reliance Roads Reliance Cements Reliance Energy Trading Mumbai Metro One Nanded Airport CGRF BSES Delhi ------------------------------------- Reliance Entertainment Reliance Big Entertainment Reliance Broadcast Network BIG Productions Reliance Home Video & Games Reliance Animation Reliance Synergy BIG 92.7 FM BIG ADDA BIG Flix Talent House Reliance Games Zapak ------------------------------------- Kokilaben Hospital KDA Nursing College Harmony DAIICT Footer Menu 3 Feedback Copyright Policy Disclaimer Sitemap Copyright  2021 DA-IICT, Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India Visitors: Last Updated: 28-05-2025 Share it Back to Top