DAU Research & Innovation Service to Society Academics Admissions 2025 Formerly known as Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology B.Tech. Information and Communication Technology & Honours in ICT with minor in Computational Science Formerly known as Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology DA-IICT was founded in 2000 as a unique university devoted to the cutting-edge interdisciplinary area of Information and Communication Technology (ICT). ICT was emerging as the technology of the future bringing in the fourth Industrial Revolution. Well known and highly qualified faculty members joined DA-IICT and developed a curriculum and research program steeped in all aspects of ICT, societal, scientific, and technical. This spirit has been nurtured for the last 24 years and DA-IICT wants to continue its excellence in interdisciplinary teaching and research well into the future. The Act No. 6 of 2003 of the Gujarat Legislature provided for the establishment of the DA-IICT and conferred on it the status of a University. On 30 November 2004, the DA-IICT was included in the list of Universities maintained by the University Grants Commission under Section 2(f) of the UGC Act, 1956. DA-IICT is a member of the Association of Indian Universities (AIU) as approved by the AIU at its 84th Annual Meeting held during 12-14 November 2009. The National Assessment and Accreditation Council, Government of India has accredited DA-IICT with an A+ Grade in 2023. The Legislative Assembly of Gujarat passed the DA-IICT Amendment Act Bill on 28th February 2024 and the DA-IICT Act (Amendment) 2024, which paved the way for the formation of the Dhirubhai Ambani University, and came into force by the announcement in the Gujarat Government Gazette dated 13th May 2024. Consequent upon the said amendments, the institute transforms itself into a multi-disciplinary university of new and emerging technologies and will establish institutions in other disciplines such as law, management etc. Vision and Mission The vision of the institute is to become a globally recognized institution that offers innovative programs, outstanding faculty, an atmosphere of innovation, a responsive administration, a vibrant campus and a collaborative learning environment that continuously adapts to the changing landscape of research and innovation and the future of work. Toward this, we plan to design and deliver academic programs in both disciplinary and multidisciplinary domains to prepare students for a rapidly evolving work environment. Govt. of Gujarat conferred the status of Centre of Excellence in January 2022 NAAC (Accreditation): A+ Grade (Year- 2023) Gujarat State Institutional Rating Framework (GSIRF) awarded Five-Star Rating in the last three years Selected as one of the Nodal Institutes to mentor Innovators by the Industries Commissionerate, Govt. of Gujarat Alumni who have excelled as entrepreneurs (founded and co-founded over 100 companies), technocrats (CTO, CEO), bureaucrats (IAS, IRS, IPS, IES), academicians (NUS, University of Chicago, University of Toronto, IIT Madras) Annual Student Scholarships: INR 4-5 Crores 2 DAU at a Glance Formerly known as Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology Interdisciplinary and Multidisciplinary Research Oriented Academic Programs 3 Academics and Research at DAU Formerly known as Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology Why a B.Tech. in ICT & CS? Computational Science is an interdisciplinary field combining mathematical modeling, computer simulations, and analysis to study various complex systems in disciplines such as physics, biology, economics and finance, social science, etc. Studying such problems requires a strong foundation in mathematical and algorithmic thinking and the ability to abstract complex phenomena through simple models and large-scale computer simulations using high-performance and parallel computing. The B.Tech. (Honours) in ICT with minor in computational science at DA-IICT is a unique program that introduces undergraduate students to some aspects of the tools and thinking required in computational science. The program is meant for academically inclined, inquisitive students interested in advanced learning. In addition to the foundational courses in ICT, the program also has courses in computational physics, numerical and computational methods, modeling and simulation, and high- performance computing. Through these courses, the students learn model building, analyze and understand complex phenomena through scientific computing, draw inferences, and make predictions. The students in the program often take advanced electives such as computational Finance, Quantum computing, complex networks, time series analysis, nonlinear dynamics, econophysics, etc., that enable them to delve deeper into many interdisciplinary domains and knowledge areas. The program started in 2013 and has been a preferred one for many of the top-performing students. In a short span, it as developed a strong alumni network with students in top positions in industry, academia, and research labs. In addition to the strength of capabilities of the ICT graduates, students of the program have also been observed to develop a strong interest in advanced learning and research. Over the years, a significant fraction of the graduates have gone on for advanced degrees in computer science, computational, and data science departments at some of the top universities in India and abroad. DA-IICT philosophy and vision DA-IICT since its inception has been an institute of interdisciplinarity and contemporary domains. B.Tech. programs in ICT and ICT honours with minor in computational science are testimonials to this. With its experience and expertise at institutional innovation and knowledge reform, DA-IICT is well-poised to provide knowledge and training to young minds to provide solutions to the challenges mentioned earlier. The ICT embodies the convergence of Computer and Communication systems and has obtained wide acceptance as a distinct discipline. It is also expected that ICT graduates would enjoy a special niche only if they have certain performance capabilities not found in conventional CSE and/or ECE graduates. Logically this convergence takes place at the systems level, but at the same time it is necessary to accept a certain level of granularity as one goes down to the level of circuits, devices and materials. All programs are designed to operate on a semester-based framework that follows choice-based credit system. The ICT embodies the convergence of Computer and Communication systems and has obtained wide acceptance as a distinct discipline. It is also expected that ICT graduates would enjoy a special niche only if they have certain performance capabilities not found in conventional CSE and/or ECE graduates. Logically this convergence takes place at the systems level, but at the same time it is necessary to accept a certain level of granularity as one goes down to the level of circuits, devices and materials. All programs are designed to operate on a semester-based framework that follows choice-based credit system. 4 Program Overview Formerly known as Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology The course structure of the curriculum is broadly classified into four categories.  Foundational or Core Courses: Set of compulsory courses taken by every student for first five semesters. These courses are from the technical areas of Computer Science and Information Technology, Electronics and Communication, as well as courses in Humanities, Mathematics and Basic Sciences.  Elective Courses: These courses add to both, the technical strength and humanities and social science skills of the program. The students can choose the elective courses from the available ones from fifth semester onwards. The elective courses are grouped into the following categories.  ICT Electives (ICTE)  Technical Electives (TE)  Humanities and Social Sciences Electives (HASSE)  Science Electives (SE)  Open Electives (OE)  Internships and BTech Projects: Students will do a rural internship during the third semester winter break at NGO or Government Organization. The students will do an industrial or research internship during the summer break in the end of their 6th semester. Finally the student will take a semester long on-campus project (BTP) or the off- campus project  Industrial Training Project (ITP).  Co-curricular Activities: These are non-class activities like sports, cultural and technical club activities. These courses run over the first four semesters and are graded Pass/Fail.  Exploration Projects: Exploration projects allow students to explore their surroundings to identify interesting problems that admit a design based and/or hardware based solution and make such a product by leveraging the introduction to ICT skills learnt in the first semester. Students are expected to work in groups of 8 to 10 under a faculty mentor over two semesters - second and third semester. This course will be graded on a Pass/ Fail basis. 5 Program Structure Formerly known as Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology Semester-1 Introduction to ICT Language and Literature Calculus Introduction to Programming Programming Lab Basic Electronic Circuits Co-curricular Activities-1 Semester-3 Science, Technology, Society Linear Algebra Design and Analysis of Algorithms Computer Systems Programming Signal an d Systems Exploration Project-2 Co-curricular Activities-3 Semester-5 Software Engineering Digital Communications Computer Networks ICTE-1 TE-1 Numerical and Computational Methods Semester-7 BTP-1 ICTE-3 TE-4 HASSE-1 SE-2 Semester-2 Approaches to Indian Society Discrete Mathematics Digital Logic and Computer Organization Data Structures Data Structures Lab using Object Oriented Programming Electromagnetic Theory Exploratory Project-1 Co-curricular Activities-2 Semester-4 Principles of Economics Probability and Statistics Database Management System Embedded Hardware Design Introduction to Communication Systems Introduction to Computational Physics Co-curricular Activities-4 Semester-6 Environmental Science SE-1 ICTE-2 TE-2 TE-3 Modelling & Simulation Semester-8 BTP-2 OE-1 OE-2 Representative list of electives Graph Theory and Algorithms Human Computer Interaction Intro to Data Science Approximation Algorithms Data Mining and Visualization Introduction to Robotics Computational Complexity Human Computer Interaction Introduction to Complex Network Randomized Algorithms Natural Language Processing Stochastic Simulation Quantum Computing Natural Computing Computational Number Theory Introduction to Cryptography Software Engineering Einstein's Physics Blockchain and Cryptocurrencies Optimization Operating Systems Adversarial Machine Learning Computational Financial Nanoelectronics Machine Learning and Security Modern Algebra Introduction to VLSI Circuits Intro. to coding theory and Applications Software Project Management Analog IC Design Compiler Design Specification & Verification of Systems Logic for Computer Science Digital Image Processing Models of Computation Modern European Philosophy Internet of Things System and Network Security Art: Ideas and Perspectives Digital Signal Processing No SQL Database Human Behaviour Management Statistical Communication Web Data Management Culture, Politics, Identity Wireless System Design Speech Technology Organisational Behaviour RF and Antenna Engineering Deep Learning Publics in South Asia: Contemporary Per spectives Microwave Propagation Recommendation Systems Control Theory Intro. to AI Systems, Policies and Implications 6 Course Curriculum Formerly known as Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology Total Seats: 90 33% of the seats are reserved under Gujarat Category. Seats under Gujarat Category will be filled as per the guidelines of ACPC. The candidate has to apply to ACPC, GoG, separately. Eligibility Criteria The minimum academic qualification for admission to the programs is that the candidate must have passed or appearing in 2025 in the final examination of 10+2 (Class XII) or its equivalent with Mathematics, Physics and any one of Chemistry/Bio-technology/Computer Science/Biology. Selection Process Admission to the B. Tech (Honours) in ICT with minor CS program will be based on the All India Rank of Joint Entrance Examination 2025 (JEE-2025) Main, which is conducted by the National Testing Agency, Government of India. The short-listed candidates will be offered admission (confirmed/waitlisted) in order of their merit (based on the All India Ranking of JEE Main 2025) and preferences selected. How to Apply Candidates submit an online application by clicking on the link given on the Institute website. Fees Structure* Tuition Fee: Rs. 1,78,500 per Semester *This Fee Structure is submitted to the Appellate Committee of the State Government for consideration. *Subject to revision every Academic Year from 8 to 10%. For Inquiries Email: ug_admissions@daiict.ac.in | Voice call: 079 69 08 08 08 For more details please visit: www.daiict.ac.in Scholarships UG Institute Fellowships: A few students admitted to the program are awarded fellowships equivalent to full tuition fees. Fellowship is for best JEE rank holders, best GUJCET rank holders, 12th class toppers from different states and girls students. UG Merit Scholarships: A few students admitted to the program are awarded merit scholarships equivalent to full tuition fees based on their semester results. UG Merit-cum-Means Scholarships: A few students admitted to the program are awarded upto 70% of tuition fees as a merit-cum-means scholarships based on their semester results and familys annual income. Mukhya Mantri Yuva Swavalamban Yojna, Government of Gujarat Hon. Chief Minister Scholarship Scheme, Government of Gujarat Digital Gujarat Portal, Government of Gujarat National Scholarships Portal, Government of India Cybage Khushboo Scholarships Education Loan: The Institute will facilitate the students to avail educational loan from selected banks. Important Dates Online application website opens : 3rd April 2025 Last date for submission of online applications : 9th June 2025 7 Admissions