URL: https://www.daiict.ac.in/about-us

About Us | Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology
Admissions Enquire Now!
displayNone
displayNone
Accessibility Menu
Contrast View
Text Resize
Skip to Main Content
Screen Reader Access
Pause Animations
Pause
Cursor
Admissions 2025 Open
|
Summer Research Internship at DAU
Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology, Gandhinagar
PG Admissions 2023 Announced
|
Ph.D. Admissions 2023
Announced
| Admission Helpline - Voice call: 080 66 91 91 80
M.Tech.
(EC) - last date 28
th
April 2022
Admission Helpline - Voice call: 080 66 91 91 80
UG Admissions - All India
Category - Admission Status Announced
Top Right Side Menu
DCEI
CEP
NAAC
NIRF
NEP 2020
Alumni
Alumni Document Service
Grievance Redressal
ICC
Policies
Tenders
Contact
logo
Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology
A Private University
Established by The State Government of Gujarat Act
search
search
Search
Daiict Menu
About Us
Governance
Founder
President
Board of Governors
Director
Academic Council
Finance Committee
Deans
Dean (Faculty)
Dean (Academic Programs)
Dean (Research)
Dean (Students)
Executive Registrar
IQAC
Organogram
Academics
Board Of Studies
Programs of Study
UG Programs
PG Programs
Doctoral Program
Academic Areas
Dean's Office
Faculty
Academic Calendar
Courses at Moodle
Examination Department
Orientation Program
Research
Research Overview
Dean's Office
Areas
AI, ML and Data Science
Algorithms and Theory of Computation
Communications and Signal Processing
Humanities, Social Sciences and Design
Physics and Mathematical Sciences
Software Systems and Networking
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Sponsored Projects
Noteworthy Contributions
Accomplishments
Outreach and Contributions
Publications
Theses and Reports
IRB
Student Research Award
People
Faculty
Staff
Doctoral Scholars
Parents
Alumni
Students
Student Body Government
Student Committees
Student Clubs
IEEE Student Branch
Dean's Office
Achievements
Admissions
Why choose DA-IICT?
Undergraduate Admissions
Postgraduate Admissions
Ph.D. Admissions
Scholarships
Infrastructure
Resource Centre
ICT Infrastructure
Lecture Complex
Laboratory Complex
Halls of Residence
Food Court
Medical Facility
Campus Security
Sports Complex
Placements
About Placements
Placement News & Updates
Careers
Faculty Positions
Faculty on Tenure
Faculty on Contract
Postdoc Positions
Project Positions
Non-Teaching Staff Positions
About Us
Breadcrumb
Home
About Us
Vision
To help build a knowledge-led society founded on intellectual competitiveness for global leadership.
Mission
To become a first choice academic institute having high caliber students, a dynamic faculty, a sensitive administration, functioning within an atmosphere of innovative research, emphasizing academic cooperation and global collaboration. To nurture graduates to be civically engaged individuals who recognize their responsibility and role in their communities and the world.
Quality Policy
To pursue global standards of excellence in all our endeavors, namely, teaching, research, consultancy and continuing education focusing on Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and allied areas. To remain accountable in our core and support function, through processes of self-evaluation and continuous improvement.
Accreditation
The National Assessment and Accreditation Council, Government of India has accredited DA-IICT with an
A
+
Grade
(CGPA 3.32/4) in 2023.
History
Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology (DA-IICT), Gandhinagar represents Wave-4 of educational innovation in Gujarat.
The first wave was the nationalist wave and led to Gandhian experiments in education including Nai Talim. The Gujarat Vidyapith established in 1920 was a hybrid model of a University based on Gandhian principles.
The second wave led to the establishment of a whole range of educational institutions in Gujarat, mainly private colleges.
The third wave, an inspired one, was spearheaded by the Industrialist Kasturbhai Lalbhai and the Scientist Vikram Sarabhai and led to the establishment of a network of national institutes of international renown. A whole array of remarkable intellectuals provided the leadership of these Institutes.
It was in Wave 4 when the focus shifted to higher education and private participation. One of the Institutes created during this period is DA-IICT in 2001. It is the only advanced research and teaching Institute named after the Late Dhirubhai Ambani, the founder of Reliance Group.
Environment
Recognition
DA-IICT is spread over 50 acres of land in Gandhinagar, Capital City of Gujarat. The DA-IICT campus is caringly planned and designed as an environmentally conscious campus in the country. The architecture of DA-IICT is functional, but what surrounds it is a fascinating garden. The entire design is oriented towards preserving the environment. The campus with trees, lawns and bushes bearing green leaves and exotic flowers surrounding the buildings and pathways instils environment consciousness among students and enrich their learning. The campus also has a herb garden with species of rare medicinal plants. The landscape was planned and developed in a manner that no rainwater is lost. The irrigation for campus garden and lawns is carried out with recycled water. Its solid waste management system churns out organic fertilizer out of dry leaves, vegetable and food waste generated from food courts.
The campus is a haven for bird-watchers, with a variety of species of birds being spotted.
DA-IICT can be reached in about 30 minutes from Sardar Vallabhai Patel International Airport and the Central Railway Station located in Ahmedabad.
The Act No. 6 of 2003 of the Gujarat Legislature provided for establishing the DA-IICT and conferred the status of a University on it.
[
DA-IICT Act, as modified up to 31
st
May, 2012
]
Subsequently, by Act No. 6 of 2024 (The Gujarat Government Gazette Vol. LXV dated May 13, 2024) the above Act is amended by the DA-IICT (Amendment) Act, 2024.
DA-IICT Act
(166 KB)
DA-IICT Act (Amendment) 2024
(588 KB)
On 30 November 2004, the DA-IICT was included in the list of Universities maintained by the University Grants Commission under Section 2(f) of the UGC Act, 1956.
Consolidated list of All Universities
(498 KB)
UGC Letter of Notification
(40.2 KB)
DA-IICT is a member of the Association of Indian Universities (AIU) as approved by the AIU at its 84th Annual Meeting held during 12-14 November 2009.
The Institute has been accredited by the NAAC since 2017. The National Assessment and Accreditation Council, Government of India, has accredited DA-IICT with an
A+ Grade
(CGPA 3.32/4) in 2023.
NAAC Accreditation Certificate
(628 KB)
The Government of Gujarat has recognized the University as a Centre of Excellence (CoE). This recognition is part of a flagship initiative of the Government of Gujarat to select the best universities in the State and provide them with greater autonomy and regulatory freedom to allow them to achieve global standards in education.
CoE Certificate
(220 KB)
The Knowledge Consortium of Gujarat, Department of Education, Government of Gujarat has rated the university as a Five Star Institution in the category of Universities, February 2023.
GSIRF Five Star Rating
(829 KB)
Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has awarded Five Star ratings to the Institute as the Eat Right Campus.
FSSAI Certificate
(15.0 MB)
Milestones
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001
2000
20 August 2015
MoU with INFLIBNET Centre to participate in digital depository of
“Shodhganga:
A reservoir of Indian theses”.
July 2015
GHRDC-CSR Engineering Colleges Survey 2015 has ranked DA-IICT at no. 07 all over India among Engineering colleges of super excellence.
31 May 2015
The Week – Hansa Research – Engineering college survey 2015 has ranked DA-IICT at 07 all over India in Non-Government Technical Universities.
31 May 2015
Dataquest-CMR Top T-Schools Survey 2015 ranked DA-IICT as 04 all over India in Top Private T-Schools.
20 January 2015
Prof. R Nagaraj assumes additional charge of Director, Indian Institute of Information Technology Vadodara based on the MoU signed between DA-IICT and the Government of Gujarat.
20 January 2015
Prof. R Nagaraj takes over as Director from Prof. SC Sahasrabudhe.
03 November 2014
MoU with InstitutSuperieurD’Electronique De Paris (ISEP), InstitutCatholique De Paris (ICP), France for exchange of faculty, students, conduct double degree programs and joint research.
20 October 2014
Agreement with Reliance Communications Limited to establish a Research Chair in Computational Science at DA-IICT .
June 2014
GHRDC-CSR Engineering College / Institute Survey 2014 ranked DA-IICT as 3 all over India in the Private Engineering Colleges section.
27 March 2014
Dataquest-CMR Top T-Schools Survey 2013-14 ranked DA-IICT as one of the top ten technology schools in the country second time.
26 January 2014
Professor Ganesh Devy conferred upon with the ‘Padma Shri’ Award in the field of Literature and Education.
16 December 2013
Conferred ‘Embedded/VLSI Industry-Academic Institution 2013 Leadership Award’ instituted by the Silicon India and Mentor Graphics Corporation, a leader in electronic hardware and software design solutions.
31 November 2013
Mou with Indian Navy to sponsor Naval Officers for M.Tech and PhD programmes, and joint training, research and development projects.
16 October 2013
The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) awarded DA-IICT the ‘Outstanding IEEE Student Branch Chapter Award 2013.’
21 July 2013
Launched B Tech (Honours) Program in ICT with Computational Science as minor.
01 June 2013
MoU with the Government of Gujarat to mentor Indian Institute of Information Technology Vadodara set up by the Government in Public Private Partnership mode.
22 March 2013
MoU with eiTRA-eInfochips Training & Research Academy to train eiTra-eInfochips employees and conduct academic programs at Ganpat University.
29 January 2013
MoU with International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics for joint research, training and teaching, exchange of students and researchers and explore jointly external funding for research.
27 December 2012
MoU with Ramakrishna SaradaSevashram, Bastar for doctoral studies, develop and support joint research programs and conduct specialized courses.
15 December 2012
DataQuest CMR T-School survey 2012 ranked DA-IICT as one of the top ten technology schools in the country.
02 July 2012
MoU with Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar for joint teaching and research.
May 2011
EFY survey of top 50 Colleges ranked DA-IICT at 4th position on all India basis.
08 December 2010
MoU signed with the Tata Consultancy Services for TCS Research Scholarship Program.
16 June 2010
Hindustan Times survey on top 50 Private Engineering Colleges ranked DA-IICT at the 5th position on all India basis.
08 June 2010
ABP School National B-School award for outstanding Engineering Institute (West).
08 January 2010
MOU signed with Space Application Centre to conduct joint research and sponsorship of Officers for PG Programs.
29 September 2009
MOU signed with Ericson India Limited for training of DA-IICT students.
31 July 2008
A delegation from Carnegi Mellon University visits DA-IICT.
13 June 2008
Hindustan Times survey on Top 30 Private Engineering Colleges ranked DA-IICT at 10th position on an all India basis.
07 August 2007
Signing of MOU with MANAGE, Hyderabad.
11 June 2007
DA-IICT was ranked 05 all over India in the Annual Outlook-Cfore College Survey of India’s Top Professional Colleges.
02 June 2007
Signing of a Service Contract with King Saud University, Riyadh.
27 February 2007
Signing of a MOU with University of Regina, Canada.
11 January 2007
Signing of a MOU with Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun.
20 June 2006
Signing of Application Development and Distribution Agreement with Reliance.
06 May 2006
Signing of a MOU with InstitutSuperieurD’electronique De Paris (ISEP), France.
20 September 2005
Signing of a MOU with University of Antwerp, Holland.
01 March 2005
Prof. S.C. Sahasrabudhe takes over from Prof. ArvindKudchadker as Director of the Institute.
13 December 2004
A Team of University of George Tech, USA visits the Institute.
30 November 2004
DA-IICT gets recognition u/s 2(f) of the UGC Act, 1956 through a Notification of the UGC.
21 August 2004
UGC Team Visits DA-IICT for its recognition.
18 August 2004
Signing of a MOU with International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Hyderabad.
09 August 2004
One more PG program- M Des (Multimedia)- commences.
10 March 2004
Signing of a MOU with Central Electronics Engineering Research Institute (CEERI), Pilani, Rajasthan.
01 May 2003
DA-IICT University Act passed by Gujarat Legislative Assembly comes into effect.
06 March 2003
Government of Gujarat confers University status on DA-IICT through an Act of Gujarat Legislature.
23 July 2002
Three Post-Graduate programs, MTech (ICT),
M Sc (IT) and MSc (ICT-Agriculture & Rural Development) and PhD launched.
23 March 2002
First Meeting of the Academic Council held at Chitrakoot, Worli, Mumbai.
28 January 2002
First Meeting of the Board of Governors held at Reliance Center, Mumbai.
29 October 2001
DA-IICT registered as a Society and Trust under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 and the Bombay Public Trust Act, 1950, respectively (Society Registration No. GUJ/861/GANDHINAGAR).
06 August 2001
The Institute becomes operational with the commencement of Classes for its B Tech in Information & Communication Technology (ICT) program.
27 July 2001
First Counseling of the B Tech (ICT) program held at DA-IICT Campus, Gandhinagar.
29 December 2000
Laying of Foundation Stone of the Institute by ShriKeshubhai Patel, Hon’ble Chief Minister, Gujarat.
07 June 2000
Signing of MOU between RIL and Government of Gujarat for the establishment of DA-IICT.
Annual Report
Annual Report 2023-24
35.7 MB
Annual Report 2022-23
3.80 MB
Annual Report 2019-20
39.4 MB
Annual Report 2018-19
1.8 MB
Annual Report 2017-18
2.6 MB
Annual Report 2016-17
1.9 MB
Annual Report 2015-16
4.7 MB
Annual Report 2014-15
3.6 MB
displayNone
displayNone
Annual Report
Annual Report 2018-19
1.8 MB
Annual Report 2017-18
2.6 MB
Annual Report 2016-17
1.9 MB
Annual Report 2015-16
4.7 MB
Annual Report 2014-15
3.6 MB
displayNone
displayNone
Collaboration & MoUs
Indian Institute of Technology, Jammu, Kashmir
For academic and research collaboration particularly, to design and offer teaching programs leading to Degrees. The MoU also stipulates joint collaboration in organizing research conferences, seminars and workshops, conducting joint continuing education and training programs, exchange of faculty, staff and students for the purpose of education/research, jointly guide Doctoral Research Scholars and exchange information on teaching, learning and other materials relevant to each other’s educational and research programs.
Universiti Teknologi Mara, Malaysia
To jointly engage in research, exchange of students for periods of study and/or research, joint guidance of students on projects and theses, exchange of faculty and staff and organize joint seminars, conferences and meetings on research issues
Junagadh Agricultural University, Junagadh, Gujarat
To design and conduct short duration courses for JAU students, establish collaboration between faculty on teaching courses, guide students on internships, research and theses particularly, in the areas of application of Artificial Intelligence, Robotics and Drone Technology in Agriculture and allied disciplines, undertake joint research projects,organize conferences, seminars and meetings on research issues.
Sardarkrushinagar Dantiwada Agricultural University, Gujarat
To co-operate in teaching and research for the advancement and dissemination of learning, plan and execute research projects and experiments, collaborate in guiding students on their project and thesis work and organize conferences and seminars.
Wayne Agtech Private Limited, Vadodara, Gujarat
To collaborate on research for development and training, exchange researchers and other staff for participating in research, teaching and training, support students for research and career opportunities.
Macak Technologies LLP, Gandhinagar, Gujarat
To sponsor research programs and institute Doctoral Fellowships at DA-IICT titled as ‘Macak Research Scholars.’
Bennett University, Noida
To collaborate with Leadingindia.ai, one of the largest nation-wide initiative on skilling and research in Deep Learning and Artificial Intelligence Technologies. This project has the potential to change the landscape of Artificial Intelligence research in India.
University of Evora (Universidade de Evora), Portugal
For academic exchange, collaboration in teaching, research and exchange of scientific materials and publications, for advancement and dissemination of learning. Under the provisions of the MoU, DA-IICT is one of the Asian University Partners with the University of Evora in the Erasmus Mundus Fellowship Program of the European Commission.
University of Hildesheim (Stiftung Unversitat Hildesheim), Hildesheim, Germany
For academic and research collaboration, exchange of faculty, staff and students and exchange of academic information, scholarly information, materials and publications.
University of Swaziland (UoS), Swaziland
For academic exchange, research and faculty development of UoS for the advancement and dissemination of learning.
The Government of Gujarat
To mentor the Indian Institute of Information Technology, Vadodara set up on Public Private Partnership (PPP) model by the Central and State Governments and Industry.
Indian Navy
To admit eligible candidates sponsored by the Navy for M Tech and other advanced courses including PhD, joint research and development and training.
Space Application Centre, Indian Space Research Organisation
To carry out joint activities between the two institutions which will include research projects; doctoral studies of SAC officers at DA-IICT, internship of PG students at SAC, training of SAC officials, visit of faculty to SAC and SAC scientists to DA-IICT for research and academic pursuits, joint workshops and conferences.
INFLIBNET Centre, Inter-University Centre of the University Grants Commission
To participate in digitization of theses and dissertations and building-up of digital repository and to promote, share and host DA-IICT’s electronic theses and dissertations in ‘Shodhganga.’
ICICI Bank
Signed MoU to participate at the ICICITrinity Program. The Program encourages and promotes students’ talent with a view to bring forth new ideas and innovations which can be applied in the banking/finance industry and help in their commercialization. The Program supports final year UG/PG students of five students team. In case of PhD Scholars, single Scholar can seek support.
Institut Superieur D’Electronique De Paris, France
For exchange of faculty, students and joint research. University of Dayton, USA: To develop academic exchange and co-operation in teaching and research for the advancement and dissemination of learning.
University of Antwerp, Belgium
To exchange faculty, students and for scientific co-operation.
International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics, Hyderabad
To participate in teaching, training and research; explore external funding opportunities for research, exchange and host students and scholars for research and degree programmes by each other and exchange scientific materials and publications.
Indian Statistical Institute
For visit of faculty to participate in joint teaching,research, and conferences; visit of students to each other Institutes for short term courses, internships or mini projects; prepare, as necessary, additional working programs detailing specific norms and contents of co-operation and to exchange scientific materials and publications.
Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar
To collaborate on teaching and research and exchange of scientific and academic personnel.
Reliance Communications Limited
To institute the Research Chair to lead research and education in Computational Science and setting up of a Computational Science Laboratory at DA-IICT.
Tata Consultancy Services
To nominate suitable full time PhD candidates of DA-IICT for the TCS Research Scholar Program.
Erricsson India Private Limited
To impart trainings to the B Tech students who have completed their sixth semester of studies at DA-IICT and consider employment of the certified students with Erricson India.
eiTRA-einfochips Institute of Training Research and Academics Limited, Ahmedabad
To train and upgrade the skills of eiTRA employees, conduct lectures for academic programs offered by Ganpat University, provide consultancy and guidance for technological research and project execution, facilitate DA-IICT students to carry out their internship and project work at eiTRA-einfochips and jointly offer continuing education programs.
Ramakrishna Sarada Sevashram, Bastar
To sponsor eligible candidates for PhD studies at DA-IICT, develop and support joint research programs and conduct specialized courses.
Springer Science+Business Media Singapore Pte Ltd
To publish jointly books and individual titles authored by faculty, researchers and doctoral scholars of DA-IICT following the Springer’s norms of copyrights and editing and market them worldwide through Springer’s network.
Entrepreneurial Development Institute of India
To collaborate in mutually selected projects with a view to share expertise for tackling problems relating to ICT, entrepreneurship, socio-economic development etc., involving exchange of personnel, organization of joint conferences, teaching and training programs.
Contact Us
Text
DA-IICT, DA-IICT Road,
Gandhinagar 382 007, Gujarat (India)
Text
For Admission Enquiries
Text
(+91) 079 - 6826 1700
Text
(+91) 079 - 6826 1710
Text
info[at]daiict[dot]ac[dot]in
For Admissions
Voice Call:
Text
079 69 08 08 08
Support Ticket:
Click here
Follow Us On
facebook
twitter
Instagram
Youtube
LinkedIn
blogIcon
Admissions
displayNone
Undergraduate
displayNone
Postgraduate
displayNone
Doctoral Program
displayNone
Scholarships
Research
displayNone
Research Overview
displayNone
Deans Office
displayNone
Areas
displayNone
Sponsored Projects
displayNone
Faculty Achievements
displayNone
Publications
displayNone
Theses and Reports
Academics
displayNone
Undergraduate
displayNone
Postgraduate
displayNone
Doctoral
displayNone
Stakeholder Feedback
People
displayNone
Faculty
displayNone
Staff
displayNone
Doctoral Scholars
NAAC
displayNone
NAAC Cycle 2 SSR Submitted: 2023
displayNone
SSR & Evaluative Reports Addendum 2017
displayNone
displayNone
SSR 2015
displayNone
displayNone
Evaluative Report 2015
displayNone
CoE, Government of Gujarat
displayNone
Application submitted
displayNone
Audited Accounts
displayNone
Meeting of the Governing Bodies
NIRF
displayNone
INDIA Ranking 2025 DCS Submitted
INDIA Ranking 2020 DCS Submitted
Other Links
displayNone
UGC proforma/Mandatory disclosure
displayNone
displayNone
e-Procurement
displayNone
displayNone
Prof. S.C. Sahasrabudhe - A Memoir
displayNone
Holidays 2025
displayNone
displayNone
Ecampus
displayNone
displayNone
Intranet
displayNone
displayNone
Courses
displayNone
displayNone
Capacity Development and Skills Enhancement Initiatives
displayNone
Parents
displayNone
CEP
displayNone
DCEI
displayNone
displayNone
Committees
displayNone
displayNone
Anti-Ragging Committee
displayNone
displayNone
DA-IICT Lecture Series
displayNone
Synapse
displayNone
displayNone
Concours
displayNone
displayNone
Tree Survey
displayNone
Newsletter
displayNone
Directory
displayNone
Photo Gallery
Group Website
Choose a Group Website:
----------- Group Websites ------------
Reliance Group
-------------------------------------
Reliance Communications
Reliance Digital TV
Global Cloud Xchange
Reliance Globalcall
-------------------------------------
Reliance Capital
RARCL
Reliance Securities
Reliance PMS
Reliance General Insurance
Reliance Life Insurance
Reliance Commercial Finance
Reliance Mutual Fund
-------------------------------------
Reliance Infrastructure
Reliance Energy
Reliance Power
Reliance Roads
Reliance Cements
Reliance Energy Trading
Mumbai Metro One
Nanded Airport
CGRF
BSES Delhi
-------------------------------------
Reliance Entertainment
Reliance Big Entertainment
Reliance Broadcast Network
BIG Productions
Reliance Home Video & Games
Reliance Animation
Reliance Synergy
BIG 92.7 FM
BIG ADDA
BIG Flix
Talent House
Reliance Games
Zapak
-------------------------------------
Kokilaben Hospital
KDA Nursing College
Harmony
DAIICT
Footer Menu 3
Feedback
Copyright Policy
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Copyright © 2021 DA-IICT, Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India
Visitors:
Last Updated: 23-05-2025
Share it
Back to Top