DAU Research & Innovation Service to Society Academics Admissions 2025 Formerly known as Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology MDes. Intelligent User Experience Design Formerly known as Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology 2 DAU at a Glance DA-IICT was founded in 2000 as a unique university devoted to the cutting-edge interdisciplinary area of Information and Communication Technology (ICT). ICT was emerging as the technology of the future bringing in the fourth Industrial Revolution. Well known and highly qualified faculty members joined DA-IICT and developed a curriculum and research program steeped in all aspects of ICT, societal, scientific, and technical. This spirit has been nurtured for the last 24 years and DA-IICT wants to continue its excellence in interdisciplinary teaching and research well into the future. The Act No. 6 of 2003 of the Gujarat Legislature provided for the establishment of the DA-IICT and conferred on it the status of a University. On 30 November 2004, the DA-IICT was included in the list of Universities maintained by the University Grants Commission under Section 2(f) of the UGC Act, 1956. DA-IICT is a member of the Association of Indian Universities (AIU) as approved by the AIU at its 84th Annual Meeting held during 12-14 November 2009. The National Assessment and Accreditation Council, Government of India has accredited DA-IICT with an A+ Grade in 2023. The Legislative Assembly of Gujarat passed the DA-IICT Amendment Act Bill on 28th February 2024 and the DA-IICT Act (Amendment) 2024, which paved the way for the formation of the Dhirubhai Ambani University, and came into force by the announcement in the Gujarat Government Gazette dated 13th May 2024. Consequent upon the said amendments, the institute transforms itself into a multi-disciplinary university of new and emerging technologies and will establish institutions in other disciplines such as law, management etc. Vision and Mission The vision of the institute is to become a globally recognized institution that offers innovative programs, outstanding faculty, an atmosphere of innovation, a responsive administration, a vibrant campus and a collaborative learning environment that continuously adapts to the changing landscape of research and innovation and the future of work. Toward this, we plan to design and deliver academic programs in both disciplinary and multidisciplinary domains to prepare students for a rapidly evolving work environment. Govt. of Gujarat conferred the status of Centre of Excellence in January 2022 NAAC (Accreditation): A+ Grade (Year- 2023) Gujarat State Institutional Rating Framework (GSIRF) awarded Five-Star Rating in the last three years Selected as one of the Nodal Institutes to mentor Innovators by the Industries Commissionerate, Govt. of Gujarat Alumni who have excelled as entrepreneurs (founded and co-founded over 100 companies), technocrats (CTO, CEO), bureaucrats (IAS, IRS, IPS, IES), academicians (NUS, University of Chicago, University of Toronto, IIT Madras) Annual Student Scholarships: INR 4-5 Crores 3 Formerly known as Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology Academics and Research at DAU Interdisciplinary and Multidisciplinary Research Oriented Academic Programs Program Level Doctoral PG UG Program Name PhD MTech (ICT) MSc (IT) MSc (Data Science) MSc (Agriculture Analytics) MDes (Communication Design) MDes (IUxD) BTech (ICT) BTech (Hons in ICT; minor in Computational Science) BTech (Mathematics and Computing-MnC) BTech (Electronics and VLSI Design-EVD) Sponsored Research Projects: 31 Consortia Projects (DST, MeitY): 4 Industry/Consultancy Projects: 2 Major MoUs/LoUs: - Institut Superrieur Delectronique De Paris (ISEP), Catholic University of Paris, France - Springer Science-Business Media, Singapore - Oregon University, USA - University of Evora, Portugal - Texas A & M University, USA - University of Milano, Italy - University of Hildesheim, Germany Conferences/Workshops/Summer Schools: 25 Publications: 468 h - index: 48 Duration 4-6 Years 2 Years 2 Years 2 Years 2 Years 2 Years 2 Years 4 Years 4 Years 4 Years 4 Years Unique Features - Entry through national level entrance text & interview - Thesis and Project mode - Industry oriented IT program - Hand-on program - In collaboration with IIRS & AAU - Fusion of Technology, HSS & Design - Fusion of HCI and Design - 1st institute in India to offer unique program in ICT in 2001 - 1st institute in India to offer UG program in Computational Science - Intersection of Computer Science & Applied Mathematics to solve complex problems 4 Formerly known as Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology About MDes (IUxD) MDes IUxD Overview MDes (Intelligent User Experience Design) is a 2-year transdisciplinary design specialisation that prepares students for a professional career in UI/UX, HCI design, AR & XR design, UX research, Innovation and System thinking. The specialisation leverages growing integration and accessibility of smart and intelligent technologies to create a variety of user experiences. The MDes (IUxD) specialisation at DA-IICT aims to provide a comprehensive design education that addresses real-world challenges by integrating technology, human-centered design, design process, and aesthetics within a transdisciplinary framework. The specialisation prioritizes a deep understanding of design practice and thinking within specific contexts, highlighting the importance of both integrating design context with technology-driven design approaches. This distinctive transdisciplinary specialisation prepares students to pursue careers as UX researcher and auditor, mobile and web application designer, Interaction designer for AR/MR/AI and chatbots, designer for social intelligent system, UI designer, Experience designer for the phygital retail, Product interface designer for the smart devices/IoT, Entrepreneur and Design educator. MDes IUxD Structure MDes IUxD aims to deepen, broaden and innovate on the current understanding of how technologies (new and legacy) are being utilized to design and deliver a diverse range of products and services across various verticals, such as education, health, entertainment, tourism, hospitality, marketing, finances, and more. By focusing on their impact on value creation, relationship outcomes, customer perceptions, ethical issues, and other related aspects to provide valuable insights into the responsible application of these technologies. Graduate Outcome MDes (IUxD) specialisation at DA-IICT is a blend of UX, UI, and Interaction Design, with a strong focus on smart products, positions the specialisation at the forefront of shaping empathetic and future-ready intelligent experiences. At the end of the 2-year program students are expected to understand UX design, technology, design methods and processes to conceptualize and prototype solutions for human-centric design problems in both linear and interactional formats. In sum, the graduates would be able to:  Empathy-Driven Innovation & HCI  UX Research  Cross-Disciplinary Innovation  Design for Emerging Technologies  Design thinking, Ideation, Research & Prototyping AI-generated Image. For representational purpose only. 5 Formerly known as Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology Pedagogy The MDes (IUxD) specialisation is module based with a combination of theory and Studio sessions. Instruction is provided through personalised engagement, proactive problem solving, exposure to technology, user-centric research, studio-based learning and through group and individual projects including final thesis projects. Students are encouraged to interface with a variety of technologies, design verticals and experimentations in Makers Labs to observe, understand and engage with issues and challenges specific to IUxD. Through a series of inter-related courses spread over two years, the specialisation introduces students to a wide variety of foundational and specialised courses like Orientation to Intelligent User-Experience Design, Fundamentals of Design for IUxD, Elements of Design for IUxD, Intelligent Technology: An introduction, Basics of UI, UX & IxD, Design Thinking: Concepts & concerns, Design Research Methods, AI & Interaction Intelligence, Intelligent Design Decisions. Courses in AR & XR for Designers, Interaction Design, Phygital Experience Design, Immersive Experience Design, Human Factors (Physical and Cognitive Ergonomics) in Interaction Design, User Interface Design are also introduced. Open Electives are offered every year on Design subjects not part of the Core curriculum. This is to help students explore the larger field of Design and provide them with a hands-on experience to develop a product under the guidance of a faculty. DA-IICT also houses a rich Resource Centre that offers students a wide-range of books, journals and Design archives that supplement the content taught in class. Students are meant to use these resources to deepen their understanding of Design as a profession, as a discipline and as an interdisciplinary practice. With its limited seats, the MDes (IUxD) programme provides students with excellent opportunities of interaction with Faculty and a learning experience that is collaborative, immersive and holistic. 6 Formerly known as Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology Curriculum Semester I (Autumn Semester) Foundation of Design and UI/UX Module Name Credits (L-T-P-C) Orientation to Intelligent User-Experience Design 2-0-2-3 Fundamentals of Design for IUxD 3-0-4-5 Elements of Design for IuxD 2-0-4-4 Intelligent Technology: An-introduction 2-0-4-4 Basics of UI, UX & IxD 2-0-4-4 Semester II (Winter Semester) IuxD Foundations Module Name Credits (L-T-P-C) Design Thinking: Concept & Concerns 2-0-2-3 Design Research Methods 2-0-2-3 AI & Interaction Intelligence 2-0-4-4 Intelligent Design Decisions 2-0-4-4 Human Factors (Physical & Cognitive Ergonomics in Interaction Design) 2-0-2-3 User Interface Design 2-0-4-4 Semester III (Autumn Semester) IuxD Core: Interactive, Immersive & Experience Design Module Name Credits (L-T-P-C) AR & XR for Designers 1-0-4-3 Interaction Design 3-0-4-5 Phygital Experience Design 3-0-4-5 Immersive Experience Design 3-0-4-5 Open Elective 2-0-2-3 Semester IV (Winter Semester) Final Thesis Project 6-0-24-18 7 Formerly known as Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology Admissions Total Seats: 25 Eligibility Criteria A Bachelors Degree or equivalent from a statutory university in the fields of Design, Humanities, Social Sciences, Fine Arts, Applied Arts, Science, Engineering, Technology, and Performing Arts. Professional degrees or Diplomas from nationally recognized institutions such as NID, NIFT, CEPT, IDC will also be considered for eligibility. Candidates must have 55% marks or equivalent in the last qualifying degree/examination and are required to submit the provisional Degree certificate or proof of completion of Degree before 30 October 2025 failing which their admission is liable for cancellation. Selection Process Candidates for this specialisation without a valid CEED score will be selected for interview through a Design Aptitude Test (DAT) to be conducted at selected centers all over the country. Candidates with a valid CEED score will be selected for interview if they have qualified Part A, and have obtained a minimum of 25 marks in Part B. Further, for such candidates their CEED score will be used as DAT score. The final selection will be based on the combined scores attained in the DAT and the interview. The DAT will constitute 60%, and the interview 40% of the overall marks assigned to the admission test. Note: The decision of the Competent Authorities of DA-IICT regarding eligibility and selection of any candidate shall be final. How to Apply Candidates submit an online application by clicking on the link given on the Institute website. Admission Offer Final merit list of the confirmed and wait-listed candidates (based on their performance in the entrance examination/interview) shall be posted in the website of the institute. Important Dates - Online application website opens: 25th March 2025 - Last date for submission of online applications: 20th May 2025 - Entrance test DAT (Design Aptitude Test): 15th June 2025 Fees Structure* At the time of admission an amount of Rs. 1,75,000/- (Rs. 1,50,000/- towards Tuition Fee for the First Semester and Rs. 25,000/- towards a Caution Deposit) is to be paid. The registration fee is payable at the time of registration and hostel rent on allotment of the hostel room. - Tuition fee Rs. 1,50,000 per Semester - Registration Fee Rs. 2,500 per Semester - Caution Deposit Rs. 25,000 (Refundable at the end of the program) - Hostel Rent Rs. 35,000 per semester - Food On actuals. There are multiple food options available in the campus (The expense will be approximately Rs.5,500 pm) *Subject to revision every Academic Year from 8 to 10%. Education Loan The Institute will facilitate the students to avail educational loan from selected banks. The students can also avail loan from banks of their choice and in either of the case; the Institute will extend support in completing the loan documentation process. 8 Formerly known as Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology For Inquiries Email: pg_admissions@daiict.ac.in Voice call: 079 69 08 08 08 For more details please visit: www.daiict.ac.in Important Links: DAIICT MDes (IUxD) website link: https://www.daiict.ac.in/mdes-intelligent-user-experience-design DAIICT Instagram handle: https://www.instagram.com/daiictofficial