Admissions - M.Des. | Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology Admissions Enquire Now! displayNone displayNone Accessibility Menu Contrast View Text Resize Skip to Main Content Screen Reader Access Pause Animations Pause Cursor Admissions 2025 Open | Summer Research Internship at DAU Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology, Gandhinagar PG Admissions 2023 Announced | Ph.D. Admissions 2023 Announced | Admission Helpline - Voice call: 080 66 91 91 80 M.Tech. (EC) - last date 28 th April 2022 Admission Helpline - Voice call: 080 66 91 91 80 UG Admissions - All India Category - Admission Status Announced Top Right Side Menu DCEI CEP NAAC NIRF NEP 2020 Alumni Alumni Document Service Grievance Redressal ICC Policies Tenders Contact logo Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology A Private University Established by The State Government of Gujarat Act search search Search Daiict Menu About Us Governance Founder President Board of Governors Director Academic Council Finance Committee Deans Dean (Faculty) Dean (Academic Programs) Dean (Research) Dean (Students) Executive Registrar IQAC Organogram Academics Board Of Studies Programs of Study UG Programs PG Programs Doctoral Program Academic Areas Dean's Office Faculty Academic Calendar Courses at Moodle Examination Department Orientation Program Research Research Overview Dean's Office Areas AI, ML and Data Science Algorithms and Theory of Computation Communications and Signal Processing Humanities, Social Sciences and Design Physics and Mathematical Sciences Software Systems and Networking VLSI & Embedded Systems Sponsored Projects Noteworthy Contributions Accomplishments Outreach and Contributions Publications Theses and Reports IRB Student Research Award People Faculty Staff Doctoral Scholars Parents Alumni Students Student Body Government Student Committees Student Clubs IEEE Student Branch Dean's Office Achievements Admissions Why choose DA-IICT? Undergraduate Admissions Postgraduate Admissions Ph.D. Admissions Scholarships Infrastructure Resource Centre ICT Infrastructure Lecture Complex Laboratory Complex Halls of Residence Food Court Medical Facility Campus Security Sports Complex Placements About Placements Placement News & Updates Careers Faculty Positions Faculty on Tenure Faculty on Contract Postdoc Positions Project Positions Non-Teaching Staff Positions Admissions - M.Des. Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Admissions  All India Category PG Programs displayNone Postgraduate Admissions M.Tech. (ICT) M.Sc. (IT) M.Sc. (Agriculture Analytics) M.Sc. (Data Science) M.Des. M.Des. with specialization in Intelligent User Experience Design (IUxD) Communication Design (CD) Apply Now Important Dates Program Overview Program Structure Placement Statistics Intake Eligibility Selection Process Fees Structure Scholarships How to apply FAQs For Inquiries Online application website opens 25 March 2025 Last date for submission of online applications (Revised) 30 May 2025 Correction / Edit in the Application Form (Any request for modification of the application form will not be entertained after the correction window gets closed) 01 June 2025 (09:00 hrs to 18:00 hrs) Entrance test 15 June 2025 Announcement of list of candidates called for interview TBD Date of Interview TBD Announcement of Merit List TBD Last date for fees payment for confirmed candidates in first round TBD Announcement of Confirmed and Waitlisted Admissions TBD Registration and document verification at DAIICT campus for confirmed candidates TBD Master of Design (Intelligent User Experience Design)  M.Des. (IUxD) The M.Des. in Intelligent User Experience Design (IUxD) at Dhirubhai Ambani University is Indias first M.Des program that fuses Intelligent Technology with Human-Centered Design. This two-year, full-time program is built for the next generation of Designers who will shape how people interact with smart technologies like AI, AR/VR, and connected devices. This program prepares the future Designers to be the bridge between complex systems and real human needsmaking innovation accessible, inclusive, and impactful. Graduates will be equipped to work across industries like Technology, EVs, Retail, & Smart products, driving the future of intelligent experiences. India's one of the first M.Des with focus on Technology and AI in Design. Interdisciplinary curriculum blending UX, AI, HCI, AR/XR and Technology Studio-based, hands-on learning with real-world design challenges. Career paths in Interaction Design, UX Research, phygital and immersive design. Small batch of 25-seats ensures personalized mentorship and guidance. Master of Design (Communication Design)  M.Des. (CD) M.Des. (Communication Design) is a distinctive 2-year interdisciplinary design specialization blending Communication Design with Interaction Design. This prepares students for careers in multi-media design, visual communication design, UI/UX, Interaction design & Immersive design, film/motion graphics, photography, design research, innovation, strategy, and academia. The DAIICT M.Des. (CD) is a legacy specialization which emphasizes a holistic design education that addresses cultural diversity and social needs and recognizes the enormous significance of information and communication design in a modern digital economy. The specialization uniquely integrates Technology, Humanities, and Social Sciences with Design skills and aesthetics. Students gain the skills to execute complex multimedia projects, choosing the most efficient design mediums to achieve their desired communication outcomes. DA-IICT's M.Des. (CD) specialization prepares students to become strategic design thinkers, moving beyond tool-driven approaches. By focusing on critical and contextual understanding, students learn to identify, articulate, and solve context-specific design challenges with effective multimedia interventions, even amidst the rise of advanced AI-driven facilitation tools. M.Des. (IUxD) The MDes (IUxD) is a full-time two-year program, which is divided into four semesters. This Program extends traditional UX, UI, and interaction design principles to enable intuitive interactions with smart and autonomous systems, ensuring that the user experience remains meaningful and effective in an increasingly intelligent technological landscape. The program also includes conversations and debates on the ethics, challenges and uses of intelligent technologies to create sensitive designers who can visualize, leverage and integrate products and services in a socially and culturally sensitive manner. The detailed course structure consisting of both core courses and elective courses can be found here The program brochure can be found here . Program Brochure Download M.Des. (CD) The M.Des. (CD) specialization is built upon a strong foundation of core design principles. The specializations pedagogical structure integrates Basic Design Skills, Culture and Context, Visualization, Interface and Interaction Design, Multimedia Composition, Storytelling, and Research-driven problem-solving. This integrated approach allows students to apply their learning to fields such as entertainment, edutainment, branding, UI/UX, digital design, environmental design and social impact design. M.Des. (CD) employs a modular course structure that blends lectures with studio work, immersing students in real-world problems through fieldwork. Over two years, students develop a comprehensive understanding of Design, Culture, and Communication through instruction in Visual Design (color, composition, typography, graphics, photography, animation/motion graphics, film), Interaction Design (UI/UX, Human-Computer Interaction, Information Systems, immersive web and interface design), and research methods from Sociology, Anthropology, and Cultural Studies (Ethnography, Design History). Students are encouraged to engage with real-life contexts, fostering critical thinking and collaborative problem-solving skills. The detailed course structure consisting of both core courses and elective courses can be found here The program brochure can be found here . Program Brochure Download Placement Statistics for the Last Five Years - Postgraduate Programs: Highest CTC: 45.03 LPA Average CTC: 08.43 LPA Top Recruiters: M.Des. (CD) Total seats: 25 M.Des. (IUxD) Total seats: 25 Educational Qualification A Bachelors Degree or equivalent from a statutory university in the fields of Design, Science, Engineering, Technology, Humanities, Social Sciences, Fine Arts, Applied Arts, Architecture and Performing Arts. Professional Diplomas from nationally recognized institutions such as NID, NIFT, CEPT, IDC will also be considered for eligibility. Candidates must have 55% marks or equivalent in the last qualifying degree/examination and are required to submit the provisional Degree certificate or proof of completion of Degree before 30 October 2025 failing which their admission is liable to cancellation. The decision of the concerned authorities of DA-IICT regarding eligibility of any candidate shall be final. Age : There is no age limit applicable to this program. At the time of admission an amount of Rs. 1,75,000/- (Rs. 1,50,000/- towards Tuition Fee for the First Semester and Rs. 25,000/- towards a Caution Deposit) is to be paid. The registration fee is payable at the time of registration and hostel rent on allotment of the hostel room. Tuition fee Rs. 1,50,000 per Semester Registration Fee Rs. 2,500 per Semester Caution Deposit Rs. 25,000 (Refundable at the end of the program) Hostel Rent Rs. 35,000 per semester Food On Factuals. There are multiple food options available on the campus. (The expenses will be approximately Rs. 5,500 per month) * This Fee Structure is submitted to the Appellate Committee of the State Government for consideration. Subject to revision every Academic Year from 8 to 10%. Education Loan The Institute will facilitate the students to avail educational loan from selected Banks. The bank officials will be present on campus at the time of registration of admitted students so as to enable the students to obtain details on procedures and terms and conditions of the loan. The students can also avail loan from banks of their choice and in either of the case; the Institute will extend support in completing the loan documentation process Refund Policy The refund policy for the withdrawing candidates will be in accordance with the UGC rules. M.Des. Program follows a 3-step system for admission Step 1 : Admission form and Statement of Purpose Step 2 : Design Aptitude Test (DAT) conducted by DAU MDes Program. Currently students who have qualified for CEED is exempt from taking DAT. Step 3 : Interview M.Des. (CD) and M.Des. (IUxD) will have the same structure but DAT and Interview questions may differ. All candidates for this programme must appear for a Design Aptitude Test (DAT) to be conducted by DAU and on securing minimum 40% score will be selected for interview. Design Aptitude Test (DAT) may be conducted at selected centers all over the country or online. The tentative list of centers is: DAIICT Gandhinagar, Ahmedabad, Bhopal, Benguluru, Chennai, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Patna, Jaipur, Kolkata, New Delhi, Pune, Rajkot, Surat, Udaipur, Bhavnagar, Bhilai, Bhubaneswar, Chandigarh, Guwahati, Jammu, Kochi, Lucknow, Pant Nagar, Porbandar, Ranchi and Vijayawada. The final selection will be based on the combined scores attained in the DAT and the interview. The DAT will constitute 60%, and the interview 40% of the overall marks assigned to the admission test. The candidate should secure a minimum of 40% in the exam to be considered for the interview process. Currently students who have qualified for CEED is exempt from taking DAT. Their CEED score will considered in equivalence to DAT score. Note : The decision of the Competent Authorities of DAU regarding eligibility and selection of any candidate shall be final. Application form and Statement of Purpose All candidates will have to submit their Statements of Purpose online, along with their applications. Applications without an SOP will not be considered. Candidates will have to relate the curricular content of MDes (CD) or MDes (IUxD) specialization to their own interests and aptitudes and explain how they can learn and contribute to the specialization in their own way. The candidates will have to select one of the following options in the Admission form: M.Des. in Communication Design M.Des. (CD) M.Des. in Intelligent User Experience Design M.Des. (IUxD) Candidate will be considered for the selected specialization only. Design Aptitude Test (DAT): The Design Aptitude Test (DAT) for MDes (CD) and MDes (IUxD) will have the same 3-part format but the questions will differ for the 2 specializations. The DAT Question Paper will have the questions for both the specializations clearly marked and demarcated. It is the candidates responsibility to answer the correct set of questions (for MDes CD or MDes IUxD) based on their chosen preference. If the wrong set of questions is answered by the candidate, that section will not be evaluated and marked. Design Aptitude Test consists of 3 parts, each bearing 20 marks each. M.Des. (CD) - Design Aptitude Test (DAT) : The Design Aptitude Test for MDes Communication Design (MDes CD) will have the following parts: M.Des. (CD) Part 1: This test will evaluate the candidates imagination and visual cognition skills and ability to interpret a problem. M.Des. (CD) Part 2: Will evaluate the candidates recognition and understanding of a range of design and technology related challenges M.Des. (CD) Part 3: The candidates will be asked to write a subjective response to a Communication Design brief. A sample question paper can be found here (pdf) M.Des. (IUxD) - Design Aptitude Test (DAT): The Design Aptitude Test for MDes Intelligent User Experience Design (MDes IUxD) will have the following parts: M.Des. (IUxD) Part 1: This test will evaluate the candidates ability to think creatively and test problem-solving skills in the context of human centric design. M.Des. (IUxD) Part 2: Will assess the candidates understanding of digital product design and human-computer interaction related challenges. M.Des. (IUxD) Part 3: The candidates will be asked to write a subjective response to a user experience design brief, demonstrating their design thinking skills. A sample question paper can be found here (pdf) Please submit the online application along with the Statement of Purpose (SOP) by clicking on the link given below. Application fee (non-refundable) is Rs. 1500/- plus GST@ 18%. (Total: Rs. 1770/-). Click here to apply online The Candidate has to satisfy the eligibility criteria in order for her/his application to be considered for final admission. Eligible Candidates have to appear for Entrance Test conducted at selected centers in the country. The online application procedure will guide you through the necessary steps for application fee payment, submission of statement of purpose, registering for design aptitude test and appearing for personal interview. Candidates with valid CEED score are exempted from DAT Test. The short-listed candidates will be offered admission (confirmed/waitlisted) in order of their merit. Counseling will be done online. Applicants are advised, from the date of announcement of first merit list, to check for website to know about the steps they need to take to continue with the counseling process. The Candidates who have accepted admission offers will be notified to appear for registration, followed by counseling, document verification, payment of fees and on confirmation of admission, the orientation program. Interview and Admission Offer Final merit list of confirmed and wait-list candidates based on entrance test and interview performance will be posted on the website of the Institute. The offer letter for admission will be sent by the Admission committee through post or email to candidates. In case of a tie, years of experience, marks in 10+2 and 10th examination or age will be considered in order to break the tie. The frequently asked questions (FAQs) for the M.Des. program can be found here Scholarships at DA-IICT DA-IICT encourages bright young students to join its undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral programs. The institute is committed to ensuring that every talented and deserving aspirant has access to its programs. Over the last five years, more than 3500 students across UG and PG have benefitted from the various scholarships offered at DA-IICT. The Institute offers several merit cum means scholarships for students aspiring to join its UG and PG programs. UG and PG aspirants can also apply for scholarships provided by the Government of Gujarat. Additionally, DA-IICT also offers scholarships that have been instituted by its alumni. Aspirants to the PhD program can benefit from the various fellowships available at the Institute. PG Scholarships DA-IICT Scholarships to M.Des. Students | UG/PG Cybage Khushboo Scholarships Scholarships Offered to Students Voice Call: 079 69 08 08 08 Email: pg_admissions[at]daiict[dot]ac[dot]in Contact Us Text DA-IICT, DA-IICT Road, Gandhinagar 382 007, Gujarat (India) Text For Admission Enquiries Text (+91) 079 - 6826 1700 Text (+91) 079 - 6826 1710 Text info[at]daiict[dot]ac[dot]in For Admissions Voice Call: Text 079 69 08 08 08 Support Ticket: Click here Follow Us On facebook twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn blogIcon Admissions displayNone Undergraduate displayNone Postgraduate displayNone Doctoral Program displayNone Scholarships Research displayNone Research Overview displayNone Deans Office displayNone Areas displayNone Sponsored Projects displayNone Faculty Achievements displayNone Publications displayNone Theses and Reports Academics displayNone Undergraduate displayNone Postgraduate displayNone Doctoral displayNone Stakeholder Feedback People displayNone Faculty displayNone Staff displayNone Doctoral Scholars NAAC displayNone NAAC Cycle 2 SSR Submitted: 2023 displayNone SSR & Evaluative Reports Addendum 2017 displayNone displayNone SSR 2015 displayNone displayNone Evaluative Report 2015 displayNone CoE, Government of Gujarat displayNone Application submitted displayNone Audited Accounts displayNone Meeting of the Governing Bodies NIRF displayNone INDIA Ranking 2025 DCS Submitted INDIA Ranking 2020 DCS Submitted Other Links displayNone UGC proforma/Mandatory disclosure displayNone displayNone e-Procurement displayNone displayNone Prof. S.C. Sahasrabudhe - A Memoir displayNone Holidays 2025 displayNone displayNone Ecampus displayNone displayNone Intranet displayNone displayNone Courses displayNone displayNone Capacity Development and Skills Enhancement Initiatives displayNone Parents displayNone CEP displayNone DCEI displayNone displayNone Committees displayNone displayNone Anti-Ragging Committee displayNone displayNone DA-IICT Lecture Series displayNone Synapse displayNone displayNone Concours displayNone displayNone Tree Survey displayNone Newsletter displayNone Directory displayNone Photo Gallery Group Website Choose a Group Website: ----------- Group Websites ------------ Reliance Group ------------------------------------- Reliance Communications Reliance Digital TV Global Cloud Xchange Reliance Globalcall ------------------------------------- Reliance Capital RARCL Reliance Securities Reliance PMS Reliance General Insurance Reliance Life Insurance Reliance Commercial Finance Reliance Mutual Fund ------------------------------------- Reliance Infrastructure Reliance Energy Reliance Power Reliance Roads Reliance Cements Reliance Energy Trading Mumbai Metro One Nanded Airport CGRF BSES Delhi ------------------------------------- Reliance Entertainment Reliance Big Entertainment Reliance Broadcast Network BIG Productions Reliance Home Video & Games Reliance Animation Reliance Synergy BIG 92.7 FM BIG ADDA BIG Flix Talent House Reliance Games Zapak ------------------------------------- Kokilaben Hospital KDA Nursing College Harmony DAIICT Footer Menu 3 Feedback Copyright Policy Disclaimer Sitemap Copyright  2021 DA-IICT, Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India Visitors: Last Updated: 28-05-2025 Share it Back to Top